SPECIAL ISSUE A COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS OF TRIGGERS AND RISK FACTORS FOR ASTHMA BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING AND LARGE HETEROGENEOUS DATA SOURCES1 Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business, Iowa State University, 2167 Union Drive, Ames, IA  50011  U.S.A.  {wlzhang@iastate.edu} Wenli Zhang Sudha Ram Eller College of Management, University of Arizona, 1130 E.  Helen Street, Tucson, AZ  85721  U.S.A.  {ram@eller.arizona.edu} Asthma is a common chronic health condition affecting millions of people in the United States.  While asthma cannot be cured, it can be managed if we identify and understand triggers and risk factors that cause asthma exacerbations.  However, this is challenging because these triggers and risk factors are complex and inter- connected, and there are limitations to current mainstream approaches for identifying them.  The recent availability of massive amounts of heterogeneous data has opened up new possibilities for asthma triggers and risk factors analyses.  In this study, we introduce a data-driven framework, adapt and integrate multiple advanced machine learning techniques, and perform an empirical analysis to (1) derive characteristics of self- reported asthma patients from social media, (2) enable integration and repurposing of highly heterogeneous and commonly available  datasets, and (3) uncover the sequential patterns of asthma triggers and risk factors, and their relative importance, both of which are difficult to achieve via retrospective cohort-based studies.  Our methods and results can provide guidance for developing asthma management plans and interventions for specific subpopulations and, eventually, have the potential to reduce the societal burden of asthma. Keywords:  Chronic disease management, asthma triggers/risk factors, design science, machine learning, distant supervision, convolutional neural networks, sequential pattern mining, geometric inference, random forest Introduction 1 Asthma is a common chronic disease that affects people of all ages.  In the United States, more than 39.5 million people, including 10.5 million children, have been diagnosed with asthma in their lifetime.  Of these people, 18.9 million adults and 7.1 million children are plagued by persistent asthma cur- rently.  Annually, it results in more than 2 million emergency department visits, half a million hospitalizations, and 3,500 1The accepting senior editors for this paper were Indranil Bardhan, Hsinchun Chen, and Elena Karahanna. deaths (CDC 2013).  Due to causing repeated symptoms such as wheezing, chest tightness, shortness of breath, and night- time or early morning coughing, asthma is considered as a leading  cause  of  lost  productivity  with  nearly  11  million missed school days and more than 14 million missed work days every year (Akinbami et al. 2011).  The estimated cost of asthma to society from loss of productivity is about $4 billion annually (Barnett and Nurmagambetov 2011). Asthma has received a lot of attention from many medical and health researchers.  However, the causes of asthma are still not completely understood and there is no cure for asthma (WHO 2017).  Fortunately, we now have improved under- DOI:  10.25300/MISQ/2020/15106 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1, pp. 305-349/March 2020 305 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma standing of asthma as an inflammatory disease:  it can be con- trolled with proper diagnosis, appropriate care, and person- alized medication management plans to avoid triggers (i.e., momentary events that may immediately bring on symptoms, such as weather conditions) and risk factors (i.e., constant or chronic factors in one’s life that may cause asthma exacer- bation, such as race and smoking habits).  In this study, we focus  on  identifying  and  understanding  triggers  and  risk factors contributing to asthma exacerbations. Identification of these triggers and risk factors is fraught with challenges.  The first major challenge lies in the complexity of asthma.  As with many chronic diseases, asthma triggers and risk factors are complex and varied (Figure 1), including multiple biological, demographic, behavioral, environmental, social, psychological, and infectious determinants.  In addi- tion to appropriate medication management, asthma patients must have logistical, financial, and cultural access to environ- ments that foster avoidance of asthma triggers and risk factors and encourage good asthma management practices (Herman 2011).  In view of this, a comprehensive analysis is needed to provide guidance for developing asthma management plans and population-level asthma interventions.  The second chal- lenge is that most existing asthma studies focus on one or a few triggers or risk factors (see Appendix A), and, therefore, fail to identify factors critical to asthma prevention and ignore connections among these factors.  They also fail to identify the relative importance of risk factors, and thus are not suffi- cient to direct the development of asthma management stra- tegies.  The third challenge is the limitations of current main- stream approaches for asthma trigger and risk factor analyses.  Most of these analyses (approximately 60%) are conducted using cohort studies relying on surveys (see Appendix A), which  are  limited  by  time,  funding,  or  access  to  large populations. Due to the limitations of current studies, there is an imminent need to turn to additional sources of knowledge to econo- mically identify asthma triggers and risk factors in a timely manner.  Over the past two decades, the impact of big data  (defined  as  data  with  large-volumes,  arising  from  many independent sources, with distributed and decentralized con- trol, used to explore complex and evolving relationships; Wu et al. 2014) for healthcare analytics has increased remarkably (Bates et al. 2014).  Of patients with chronic conditions, 25% share their experience on social media sites (Andreu-Perez et al. 2015), which has opened up new possibilities to connect patients and health providers beyond the clinic.  Wearable devices and environmental sensor data are readily available and  relatively  inexpensive  to use.    Recent  studies  demon- strated the use of remote sensing datasets to enhance chronic disease management (Eurowinter Group 1997; Kovats and Hajat, 2008; Ramachandran et al., 2013). All in all, a data- 306 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 driven  solution  holds  great  promise  for  helping  analyze asthma risk factors from a more comprehensive perspective. In this study, following the design science paradigm (Hevner et  al.  2004),  we  propose  a  new  data-driven  approach  to answer the following two research questions:  (1) How can we identify asthma patients on social media and derive  characteristics  of  asthma  patients  from  social media,  instead  of  using  traditional  data  collection methods (e.g., questionnaires or surveys)?  The implica- tion is that the proposed methods will provide a new way to collect the background and demographic information from a large targeted population and may serve as a sub- stitute  or  complement  to  traditional  questionnaires  or survey-based data collection methods. (2) How can we leverage existing knowledge about asthma and make full use of big data by repurposing and inte- grating  multiple  open  data  sources  to  identify  asthma triggers and risk factors, their interconnecting relations, and their relative importance?  The implication is that the proposed framework would provide a new way to under- stand the triggers and risk factors for chronic conditions and could be used as a complement to retrospective co- hort studies on chronic conditions. The contributions of this study are twofold.  First, from the perspective of design science, we propose a new two-stage model  to  derive  characteristics  of  self-reported  asthma patients from social media.  We propose the use of image recognition to enhance asthma patients’ background informa- tion  extraction.    We  show  that  our  proposed  model  out- performs state-of-the-art methods.  We incorporate the geo- metric  inference  algorithm  into  our  proposed  framework, which enables us to integrate and repurpose highly hetero- geneous data from multiple open sources.  We adapt sequen- tial  pattern  mining  to  uncover  the  sequential  patterns  of asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors.    We  propose  using  the random forest algorithm to uncover the relative importance of asthma triggers and risk factors.  Both of these are difficult to achieve  using  retrospective  cohort  studies,  and  hence  our methods  can  be  used  as  a  complement  to  such  studies.  Second, from the perspective of chronic disease management, we propose a framework for comprehensive asthma triggers and  risk  factor  analysis.    We  use  a  novel  data  source  for deriving characteristics of self-reported asthma patients and provide a substitute for traditional survey-based data collec- tion methods.    The  proposed  framework  is  able  to extract information  from  various  open  data  sources  with  diverse spatial–temporal resolutions.  A system based on the proposed framework  has  the  potential  to  deliver  guidance  to  stake- holders to manage and curb the societal burden of asthma. Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Notes: • • • • Node size is based on degree centrality, defined as the number of edges incident upon a node. Node color is based on modularity, a structural measure of a network (i.e., how well a network decomposes into modular communities). Edges show relationships between asthma exacerbation and its major triggers and risk factors. Nodes and edges relations are summarized from the literature (Almqvist et al. 2008; Arif et al. 2009; Barnes  2008; Chen and Miller 2007; Galant et al. 2004; Hong et al. 1994; Kurai et al. 2013;  O’Byrne et al. 1982; Rundell et al. 2001; Salam et al. 2008; Szczeklik et al. 2000; Zacharasiewicz 2016). Figure 1.  Major Asthma Triggers and Risk Factors In the remainder of this paper, we first discuss the challenges associated with analyzing asthma triggers and risk factors and the shortcomings of existing studies; we then provide a brief review of the design science methodology.  Next, we develop and describe  a new data-driven  framework for conducting comprehensive asthma risk factors analysis.  We implement and  evaluate  the  proposed  framework  and  demonstrate  its feasibility and implications.  Finally, we conclude our work with a summary and directions for future research. Related Work  Asthma Triggers/Risk Factors and Limitations of Current Studies Asthma and its associated triggers and risk factors have been a research focus for decades.  An asthma trigger or risk factor is a momentary event or constant factor, including any attri- bute, characteristic, or exposure, that increases the likelihood of exacerbating asthma for an individual (WHO 2017).  Medi- cal  theories  indicate  that  asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors include (1) Biological  and  demographic  factors.    Biological  and demographic  factors  are  essential  to  understanding asthma exacerbation.  For instance, immune cells have been  found  to  play  a  role  in  allergic  asthma  (Barnes 2008).    Studies  have  shown  gender  differences  to  be related  to  the  prevalence  of  asthma  (Almqvist  et  al. 2008).  The relationship between racial groups and asth- ma  morbidity  has  been  examined,  reflecting  potential genetic causes for asthma (Galant et al. 2004). (2) Environmental factors.  Environmental factors have con- tinuously been the focus of attention in asthma studies. Air pollution is suggested to be linked to asthma preva- lence (Salam et al. 2008).  Weather, especially cold air, could  be  a  significant  factor  for  asthma  exacerbation (O’Byrne et al. 1982). MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 307 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma (3) Behavioral factors.  The interaction effects of behavioral factors on asthma exacerbation have been outlined by some  researchers  (Hong  et  al.  1994).    In  particular, smoking has consistently been shown to increase the risk of  asthma  in  different  studies  (Zacharasiewicz  2016).  Asthma patients who smoke appear to have an impaired response to the beneficial effects of anti-asthma drugs (Chaudhuri et al. 2003).  Other behavioral factors include exercise  (Rundell  et  al.  2001),  irregular  rest  schedule (Kozyrskyj et al. 2009), and taking medications such as aspirin (Szczeklik et al. 2000). (4) Social and psychological factors.  A number of studies highlight  the  importance  of  both  social  (e.g.,  social position or status; quality of social relationships; Wright et al. 1998) and psychological exposures (e.g., life stress, extreme emotions such as anger or fear; Chen and Miller 2007) in the exacerbation of asthma symptoms, which are important in understanding the rising asthma burden.  In addition, certain occupational hazards and exposures are found to be related to asthma (Arif et al. 2009). (5) Inflammatory and infectious factors.  Research indicates that infections by respiratory bacteria and/or viruses are important triggers of asthma exacerbations (CDC 2017b; Smith et al. 2017).  For example, both rhinovirus, which causes the common cold, and influenza A, which causes the flu, can result in asthma exacerbations (Kurai et al. 2013).  Nicholson et al.  (1993) noted that about 25% of laboratory-confirmed viral acute upper respiratory infec- tions are associated with almost half of the most severe asthma exacerbations.   Although  important,  these  extant  studies  have  substantial limitations.  First, asthma triggers and risk factors in each of the above-mentioned categories are known to be related to each other.  However, most studies have focused on one or two types of triggers or risk factors (84.7% of current studies focused on one type of asthma triggers or risk factors, 9.5% analyzed two types, and only 5.8% studied more than two types of asthma triggers or risk factors—see Appendix A) and, therefore, failed to discover the potential connections, especially the sequential patterns among them.  Moreover, existing studies mostly depend on methods such as regression models with statistical significance (i.e., p-value) reported.  They lack detailed assessments of risk factors (i.e., relative importance), and thus are not sufficient to direct the devel- opment of asthma management strategies.  Most importantly, survey-based data collection methods and retrospective cohort studies (59.1%—see Appendix A) are still the most pervasive methods for asthma triggers and risk factors analysis.  Al- though they have some important advantages, such as facili- tating the control of factors, they have many disadvantages 308 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 including limited access to the population of concern, lack of time and funding necessary to conduct large-scale studies, not being  amenable  for  tracking  trends,  and  respondents  not providing honest answers to lifestyle-, psychology-, and/or demography-related questions. Asthma Trigger and Risk Factor Detection Using Novel Data Sources and Machine Learning In  recent  years,  asthma-related  research  has  broadened  to include novel data sources and various machine learning tech- niques to develop methods that integrate with our existing knowledge on asthma.  Lee et al. (2011) proposed a pattern- based sequential mining framework by considering both bio- logical and environmental factors.  This was one of the first studies that applied the machine learning paradigm in this area.  Sadat et al. (2015) proposed a spatial association rule- mining  method  to  analyze  the  effect  of  air  pollutants  on asthma exacerbation.  The novelty of this work is in adopting environmental sensing data and taking their spatial relations into  account.    Jalali  et  al.  (2015)  and  Tang  et  al.  (2015) pushed this research area forward by proposing an events (i.e., life events) model to examine the effect of environmental and demographic factors on asthma exacerbations.  Their contri- butions are using social media data to obtain patients’ life events data, adding the temporal relations of factors into the analysis, and computing the relative importance of asthma risk factors. Although  interesting  and  promising,  the  results  of  these studies are still preliminary.  They also share some known issues and limitations.  First, they rely heavily on traditional data  collection  methods  (e.g.,  surveys  or/and  literature reviews) to obtain the patient background information needed to  analyze  asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors,  which  can  be expensive and constrained by the original/principal purpose of the data being collected.  Second, there is still no compre- hensive study (one that focuses on multiple types of factors contributing to asthma exacerbations) and the sequential pat- terns of various risk factors are still not fully understood. The deficiencies of existing asthma trigger and risk factor analyses, coupled with the challenges associated with building more effective methods, motivate our current work to develop a new data-driven framework (Lopez et al. 2006).  The design science paradigm provides a good foundation for our current study.  Design science is an outcome-based research method- ology (Nunamaker et al. 1990).  According to its definition, a design is both a product and a process (Hevner et al. 2004).  The  product  is  an  artifact  that  can  be  broadly  defined  as construct, method, model, or instantiation (Simon 1996).  The process is a sequence of expert activities composed of the procedures taken to develop and evaluate the artifact (March and  Smith  1995).    In  this  study,  the  artifact  we  intend  to deliver is a framework consisting of methods and instantia- tions  that  can  be  used  to  (1)  target  self-reported  asthma patients  and  derive  their  characteristics  from  social  media instead  of  using  traditional  survey-based  data  collection methods and (2) propose methods that can be used as a com- plement to traditional retrospective cohort studies and make full use of big data by integrating and repurposing data from diverse  sources  to  help  identify  asthma  triggers  and  risk factors,  their  interconnecting  relations,  and  their  relative importance. Deriving User Characteristics from Social Media  One focus of this study, as mentioned earlier, is to extract characteristics  (e.g.,  demographic,  behavioral,  social,  and psychological characteristics) of self-reported asthma patients from social media datasets instead of using traditional survey- based data collection methods. Social media is defined as web-based platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc.), where users (1) have unique user profiles; (2) have access to and/or provide digital content; and (3) can articulate a list of other users with whom they share a relational connection (Boyd and Ellison 2007; Kane et  al. 2014).  In this study, we are specifically interested in social media user profiles.  Social media platforms typically provide a unique user profile that is constructed by the user, by the members’ networks, and by the platform (Kane et al. 2014).  Social media user profiles have the potential to capture and understand population characteristics that may otherwise be challenging to identify.  The availability of massive social media datasets has given rise to a growing body of work that uses various techniques for the measurement of population characteristics on an unprecedented scale (Ruths and Pfeffer 2014).  This is because, despite the possible privacy issues, a lot of users still tend to have high self-presentation (i.e., in social interactions, people have a desire to control the impres- sions other people form of them, and people wish to create an image that is consistent with their personal identity; Derlaga and Berg 1987) and high self-disclosure (i.e., a process of communication  by  which  a  person  consciously  or  uncon- sciously reveals personal information that is consistent with the  image  they  would  like  to  give  about  him/herself  to another;  Dindia  2001)  on  social  media  sites  (Kaplan  and Haenlein 2010).  This is driven by (1) a person’s desire to present themselves  in cyberspace  (Schau and Gilly 2003); (2) the development of close relationships (Gibbs et al. 2006); and  (3)  the  wish  to  influence  other  users  to  gain  rewards Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma (Andrade et al. 2002).  Research has shown that a large pro- portion of social media users tend to show authentic, unique, and  stable  demographic  attributes  that  could  explain  their online behaviors (Kane et al. 2014; Xiang et al. 2017). Hence, it is reasonable to assume that we can derive attributes of self-reported asthma patients from social media datasets.  For  example,  many  studies  have  explored  ways  to  extract users’ demographic attributes from social media, including geolocation,  gender,  age,  race/ethnicity,  and  occupation (Burger et  al.  2011; Chen  et  al.  2015; Huang  et  al.  2015; Mislove  et  al.  2011;  Rao  et  al.  2010;  Sloan  et  al.  2015). Increasingly, studies show that social media data can be used as  a  source  to disclose  a  range  of behavioral  patterns,  for example, work–rest schedule, eating and smoking habits, etc.  (Abbar et al. 2015; Jamison-Powell et al. 2012; Myslín et al. 2013).  Social media users’ psychological status identification is another interesting area of research, including sentimental analysis, depression detection, and satisfaction with life (Fang et al. 2015; Ferguson et al. 2014; Mohammad et al. 2013; Nesi  and  Prinstein  2015).    These  studies  demonstrate  that social media has the potential to be a valuable source for un- covering underlying individual and population characteristics. Identifying Asthma Risk Factors from Heterogeneous Data Sources As stated earlier, another focus of this study is to identify risk factors  for  asthma  using  a  variety  of  heterogeneous  data sources.  Because of the complexity of asthma triggers and risk  factors,  the  proposed  methods  require  features  from various  data  sources.    These  data  sources  can  represent multiple biological, demographic, behavioral, environmental, social, psychological, and infectious determinants.  These data (a.k.a., big data) are at different resolutions with disparate spatial and temporal scales.  Big data analytics is important for asthma trigger and risk factor analyses because (1) it can substantially  improve  decision-making  to  improve  the development of the next generation of products and service (Manyika et al. 2011); (2) data-driven decisions can augment or occasionally overrule human judgment (Walker 2014); and (3)  it  provides  opportunities  for  discovering  new  relation- ships, helping us gain an in-depth understanding of the hidden value (Chen et al. 2014). Based on a review of extant literature, we note that asthma triggers and risk factors analysis remains an open research area with many challenging issues, such as providing a com- prehensive  view  of  asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors,  un- covering the sequential patterns and the relative importance of  different  triggers  and  risk  factors,  and  deriving  charac- teristics  of  self-reported  asthma  patients  from  novel  data MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 309 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma sources instead of using a traditional survey-based data col- lection  method.    Given  the  need  for  advanced  analytics methods and the lack of systems that address these challenges, an  obvious  necessity  arises.    On  the  basis  of  the  current understanding  of  asthma,  we  build  on  previous  work  to identify asthma triggers and risk factors using heterogeneous data sources and machine learning techniques.  Specifically, we develop a new data-driven approach to examining triggers and risk factors contributing to asthma exacerbations. Research Design and Framework for Asthma Triggers and Risk Factors Analysis In this study, we propose a framework and methods to con- duct comprehensive asthma triggers and risk factors analyses that will leverage existing knowledge regarding asthma and identify multiple types of asthma triggers and risk factors; have the ability to determine their relative importance; incor- porate  heterogeneous  and  autonomous  data  sources  that contain useful information; and derive characteristics of self- reported asthma patients from novel data sources.  We report on an empirical study and the results from analyzing 3 years of social media, environmental sensor, socioeconomic, and outpatient illness surveillance data from the United States. Figure  2  shows  the  proposed  research  framework  and  its comparison with retrospective cohort studies.  Components of the framework are elaborated in the following subsections. Heterogeneous and Open Data Sources  The  data  for  this  study  are  collected  from  four  different sources:  social media, environmental sensors, socioeconomic census, and outpatient illness surveillance.  These datasets are collected  for  a  period  of  3  years  from  January  2013  to December 2016.  In the following subsections, we describe the features extracted from these data sources and how they are used. Social Media Data   Asthma-Related Twitter Stream Data:  Twitter makes it convenient to collect data by providing APIs to access large volumes of user-filled text as well as automatically generated data (e.g., content creation time and geolocation).  We collect a large dataset from Twitter using its streaming API to include tweets containing 1 or more of 18 asthma-related keywords (e.g., asthma, inhaler, wheezing, etc.) that are suggested by medical asthma specialists (Ram et al. 2015). 310 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Self-Reported  Asthma  Patients’  Twitter  Data:    Self- reported  asthma  patients  (e.g.,  those  who  stated  they  had asthma attacks or asthma-related problems or report the use of asthma medication and/or inhalers) are identified from the asthma-related  streaming  datasets  (described  in  a  later section).  For each individual, two types of data are collected:  user  profiles,  from  which  we  extract  users’  demographic information (Table 1 and Figure 3), and archived tweets (i.e., the entire set of tweets for each individual), from which we derive users’ behavior information. Environmental Sensor Data  Local air quality and weather conditions affect how people live and breathe.   The effects  of environmental factors on asthma  exacerbations  have  consistently  been  identified  in previous studies. Local Weather Data:  The daily average weather conditions, including temperature, dew point, humidity, winds, sky con- dition,  weather  type,  atmospheric  pressure,  and  more  are collected from the U.S. National Centers for Environmental Information database.2  This database provides a record of values for a specific weather station for each day (Menne et al.  2012).    Each  weather  station  has  a  unique  identifier,  WBAN (Weather Bureau Army Navy), with location (i.e., latitude and longitude).  Outdoor Air Quality Data:  Air quality (or air pollution) data are collected from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency databases.3  This database contains measures of six types of pollutants:  particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10), ground-level  ozone  (O3),  carbon  monoxide  (CO),  sulfur oxides,4 nitrogen oxides,5 and lead (Pb).  Indicators, such as air quality indexes (AQI) and concentration values, associated with these pollutants are collected.  These data are available as  hourly/daily  average  values.    The  higher  the  indicator value, the greater the level of air pollution and the greater the health concern (EPA 2014).  Also, we are able to get the Air Quality System site ID.  A site ID is associated with a specific location (with latitude and longitude). 2https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/quick-links 3https://www.epa.gov/outdoor-air-quality-data/download-daily-data 4Sulfur oxides are a group of pollutants that contain both sulfur and oxygen molecules.  Sulfur  dioxide (SO2) is the most common form in the lower atmosphere. 5Oxides of nitrogen are a mixture of gases that are composed of nitrogen and oxygen, including NO3, N2O3, N2O4, and N2O5. Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 2.  Asthma Trigger and Risk Factor Analyses Framework Table 1.  Twitter User Profile Fields* and Tweet Fields** Description  Profile Field  Type Description id name screen_name url description location time_zone coordinates profile_image_url created_at text Integer String String String String String String Float String String String The unique identifier for a user The name of the user, as they have defined it The screen name or handle with which users identify themselves A URL provided by the user in association with their profile The user-defined UTF-8 string describing their account The user-defined location for this account’s profile A string describing the time zone The geographic location (longitude, latitude) reported by the user or client application A HTTP-based URL pointing to the user’s profile image UTC time when a Tweet was created The UTF-8 text of the Tweet status update *https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tweets/data-dictionary/overview/user-object **https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tweets/data-dictionary/overview/tweet-object Socioeconomic Census Data A number of studies call our attention to the relationship be- tween people’s social position and asthma exacerbation.  To deal with asthma attacks, individuals should have logistical, financial, and cultural access to environments that encourage good asthma management practices.  Hence, we also included a number of social economic data sources in our study. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 311 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 3.  Twitter User Profile Example Figure 4.  Different Types of Noise Embedded in Tweets Economic Research Service Data:  U.S. Economic Research Service (ERS) is the principal agency that provides nation- wide census information on various socioeconomic indicators. In this study, we use several vital social and economic factors, including  unemployment  rate,  median  household  income, education levels, and poverty rate estimates.  We collect these data from the ERS database,6 along with county-level rural/ urban codes (with polygon coordinates). County  Health  Rankings  &  Roadmap:    County  Health Rankings & Roadmap provides a summary of diverse health- related  census  data.7    We  collect  population-level  data  on health behaviors that may have a relationship with asthma exacerbation, including tobacco use, diet and exercise, alcohol and drug use, and others.  We also identify critical healthcare indicators, which track accessibility to health services and the quality  of  healthcare,  in  a  particular  geographic  region.  Along with these data, the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) codes, which uniquely identify counties in the  United  States  (i.e.,  polygon  coordinates),  are  also collected. Influenza-Like Illness Surveillance Data:  The U.S. Out- patient Influenza-Like Illness Surveillance Network8 collects and shares influenza-like illness (ILI, i.e., possible influenza or other illness causing a set of common symptoms) infor- mation  on  patient  visits  to  healthcare  providers.    We  are especially interested in the ILI activity level (i.e., the propor- tion of outpatient visits to healthcare providers) within a state.  This data is provided on a weekly basis and state name is given for geolocation identification. Weekly  U.S.  Influenza  Surveillance  Report:    The  CDC Weekly Influenza Surveillance Report9 provides an outline of the  national  and  regional  summary  of  select  surveillance components.  We collect the percentage of respiratory speci- mens  of  outpatients  that  are  positive  for  flu  in  clinical laboratories.  The collected data distinguish between influenza infections and other types of illness.  This data is reported on a weekly basis and organized by 10 regions. Identifying Self-Reported Asthma Patients on Social Media Outpatient Illness Surveillance Data Rhinovirus and influenza virus infections can be more severe for asthmatic patients, even if their asthma is controlled by medication.  Previous studies show that respiratory infections can  trigger  asthma  exacerbations  and  worsen  asthma symptoms. As described in the previous section, we use a list of asthma- related  keywords  to  generate  a  large,  albeit  noisy,  asthma dataset  from  Twitter.    There  are  three  types  of  noise  (see examples in Figure 4):  (1) loosely structured informal lang- uages, such as abbreviations, misspellings, punctuation errors, non-dictionary  slang,  and  wordplay;  (2)  anomalous  media spikes (people may include asthma-related terms in their posts, 6https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/ 7http://www.countyhealthrankings.org/ 8https://gis.cdc.gov/grasp/fluview/main.html 9https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/index.htm 312 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 5.  Framework for Signal Extraction from Social Media Text (Zhang and Ram 2017) however, some of these may be from users who post asthma- related news; these do not reflect actual disease affliction); and (3) misleading terms and phrases (e.g., indicating aware- ness of asthma or using asthma as rhetoric, such as “Hope I won’t get asthma” or “I will call you asthma, because you take my breath away”—clearly about asthma but not about affliction).  The first type of noise is challenging for machine interpretation.  The latter two types of noise tend to over- estimate population characteristics. To identify potential asthma patients, a proper signal extrac- tion process is essential for producing robust results because all of these types of noise need to be identified and removed.  In previous research, Zhang and Ram (2015,2017) proposed a novel and efficient framework combining natural language processing, machine learning, and domain adaptation tech- niques to extract signal from social media text (Figure 5). The  proposed  method  was  tested  using  several  large  real- world datasets from social media and outperforms other base- line methods by a large margin.  After using this method, the correlation between aggregated asthma stream data and the actual U.S. adult asthma prevalence (CDC 2017a) was signi- ficantly  improved  from  30.3%  to  69.2%  (Table  2),  which demonstrated the effectiveness of the framework.  So it is rea- sonable to assume that the extracted signals do reflect actual self-reported asthma affliction.  In this work, after applying this signal extraction process, we identify potential asthma patients from this cleaned dataset.  The following criteria are developed to identify Twitter users as self-reported asthma patients: (1) Required  condition:    the  tweets  need  to  state  that  the individual has asthma or had an asthma attack recently. Supporting conditions:  tweets may indicate severe diffi- culty in breathing as part of a discrete attack, shortness of breath, nighttime coughing with duration greater than one month; family history, or childhood history. (2) Required condition:  the tweets indicate use of an inhaler.  Supporting condition:  tweets indicate no illicit drug use either explicitly stated or implied. Deriving User Characteristics of Self-Reported Asthma Patients from Social Media In this section, we describe methods to analyze social media data to automatically derive characteristics of potential asthma patients. For many years, research studies have depended on traditional data  collection  methods  (e.g.,  surveys)  to  obtain  patients’ background  to  analyze  asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors, making large-scale research prohibitively expensive and slow.  Social media data, on the other hand, can reveal demographic characteristics and provide continuous signals of behavior.  However, the effort associated with the collection, cleaning, and preparation of such data is not trivial.  We propose an advanced  two-stage  classification  model  to  automatically derive information that is vital for the asthma trigger and risk factor analyses (Figure 6).  In stage one, we extract demo- graphic attributes using weakly labeled data which makes our MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 313 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Table 2.  Correlation Between Asthma Prevalence and Twitter Asthma Dataset (Zhang and Ram 2017) Before Signal Extraction After Signal Extraction  Asthma Prevalence 2013 Pearson Correlation Sig. N Pearson Correlation Sig. N *Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level **Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level Asthma Prevalence 2014 0.692** 0 52 0.701** 0 52 0.303* 0.029 52 0.312* 0.028 52 Figure 6.  Two-Stage Model to Derive User Characteristics from Social Media model scalable and efficient.  In stage two, we use all avail- able data and propose a convolutional neural network (CNN) based profile image classification method.  This enhances our model’s ability to identify gender, race and age group, by boosting the accuracy. unseen data.  Although distant supervision models are trained in the presence of weak labels, they can make predictions with competitive accuracy compared to supervised learning. Most importantly, they have the ability to scale well for large datasets (Go et al. 2009). Stage 1:  Distant Supervision One of the major obstacles to extracting patients’ character- istics from social media data is the lack of annotated datasets that provide ground truth for classification.  The annotation process is extremely expensive, so the number of annotated samples tend to be very small compared to the number of data records  in  reality.    In  machine  learning  research,  distant supervision is a subclass of semi-supervised learning where a  classifier  is  trained  on  a  weakly  labeled  (i.e.,  labels  are incomplete or partially known) training dataset or existing knowledge base instead of manually labeled data (Craven and Kumlien 1999).  It generates training data automatically by aligning existing knowledge and predicts labels for previously In this study, we develop new distant supervision models for social  media  user  characteristics  extraction,  where  the models are learned using automatically labeled training sets (i.e.,  weak  labels)  based  on  biographical  characteristics  to avoid labor-intensive data annotation (Figure 7).  We describe the knowledge base used, the weak label extracted and the learning target (i.e., label predicted for each characteristic of a social media user). As stated previously, we collect two types of data for each identified  individual  asthma  patient:    user  profile  and archived tweets.  We extract demographics from their social media  user  profile  and  behavioral  information  from  their archived tweets. 314 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 7.  Distant Supervision Learning and Prediction Process (adapted from Bird et al.  2009) The following demographic attributes (i.e., the learning target for  each  distant  supervision  task)  are  gleaned  from  user profile data: • Geographic Location:    By  using  Nominatim10  as  the knowledge base, the geographic location of each self- reported  asthma  patient  can  be  identified  via  three Twitter user profile fields:  coordinates (e.g., {-97.510, 35.465}),  location  (e.g.,  “San  Francisco,  CA”),  and time_zone.    For  the  latter  two,  there  are  considerable ambiguities  (e.g.,  “I  am  somewhere  on  the  earth”). Geolocation extraction was performed by using latitude and  longitude  mapping  and  distant  supervision  using state names or postal abbreviations for U.S. states (e.g., Arizona or AZ), county (e.g., Pima), and city names (e.g., Tucson) as weak labels.  Users’ self-reported time zones were used to distinguish different cities with the same name. • Gender:  Studies have shown gender differences in the prevalence of asthma.  We rely on two Twitter user pro- file  fields  to  detect  gender:    name  and  screen_name, which could potentially be a user’s real name with high probability.  The most popular given names for male and female babies (top 3,000), as reported by the U.S. Social Security Administration,11 born between 1940 and 2016 were collected as natural weak labels for gender detec- tion (Mislove et al. 2011).  We removed names that are in both male and female lists because they lack distin- guishing capability. • • Race:  The genetic variants between racial groups may explain  additional  risk  (e.g.,  the  Hispanic  population exhibited  much  higher  asthma  admission  histories; Hunninghake  et  al.  2006).    We  employ  users’  self- reported last name to infer racial groups (Wong et al. 2010).    We  collect  weak  labels  from  the  2000  U.S. census,12 which summarizes the distribution of races for last names (Mislove et al. 2011).  For example, the last name “Wood” was observed to correspond to Caucasian 90.06% of the time, African American 5.61%, Asian & Pacific  Islander  0.51%,  American  Indian  0.82%,  and Hispanic 1.60%.  So the weak label of the race detection task  for  the  last  name  “Wood”  is  assigned  as  “Cau- casian.” Age group:  In this study, we classify users into two major demographic groups:  below 20 or above 20.  This binary classification is useful because studies show that asthma is more common among females than males after puberty  (Almqvist  et  al.  2008).    We  depend  on  two Twitter user profile fields to discover their age groups:  description and url.  Many users include their age in the description field and linked their LinkedIn profiles or home pages (which may reveal age) in the url field (Rao et al. 2010). • Occupation:    Certain  occupational  factors,  such  as chemicals used in farming and hairdressing, are asthma risk factors.  We extract a user’s occupation by doing a fuzzy search (i.e., flexible matching) on the description field  for  occupations  that  are  included  in  the  U.S. 10https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Nominatim 11https://www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/ 12https://www.census.gov/topics/population/genealogy/data/2000_ surnames.html MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 315 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Occupational Employment Statistics list.13  The descrip- tion  field  in  some  cases  may  contain  more  than  one occupation.  We only include the first one, assuming it most likely represents the primary appointment (Sloan et al. 2015). Next, we derive behavioral attributes from the archived tweets of identified asthma patients.  • Sentiment Profile:  Strong emotions and emotional reac- tions can be asthma risk factors.  One’s sentiment profile can be used to monitor stress level and emotional state (Liu et al. 2017).  In this study, sentiment is defined as an individual’s positive or negative feeling.  We use emoti- cons as weak labels (e.g., positive:  J, :D, etc.; negative:  L,  :-(,  etc.).    A  sentiment  profile  is  defined  as  one’s n Óarchive(tp – tn).  For collective sentiment each day:  sd individual i, there are m tweets in day d, where t stands for a single tweet, p is positive and n is negative. i = 1 • Work–Rest Schedule:  Irregular work–rest rhythms may exacerbate asthma.  We examine users’ work–rest sched- ules by recording their active periods on Twitter.  The timestamp (i.e., created_at field) associated with each archived  tweet  is  the  natural  weak  label for this  task. Activities during the time period 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. are recorded as an irregular work–rest status. • Other Behavioral Patterns:  Other behaviors, such as smoking,  excessive  drinking,  taking  medications,  or physical exercise, are associated with asthma exacerba- tions.  Related behavioral keywords are used as weak labels and information extraction techniques are used to detect such behaviors from the text field. Stage 2:  Appearance-Based CNN Profile Image Classification Model  In machine learning, convolutional neural network (CNN) is a class of deep neural networks (DNN) and is suitable for image analysis (Lecun et al. 1998).  CNN uses special archi- tectures  (three  basic  ideas:    local  receptive  fields,  shared weights, and pooling) that are particularly well-adapted for image classification.  Facial images (e.g., social media profile images)  and  CNN  have  been  successfully  combined  for demographic attributes detection (Levi and Hassner 2015; Liu et al. 2015). Our  appearance-based  CNN  profile  image  classification model consists of three steps (Figure 8). • • • Profile image collection:  Over 90% of social media users display their own profile images publicly (Strano 2008).  We collect users’ Twitter profile images (400px × 400px) according  field profile_image_url. the  Twitter  user  profile  to  Face  alignment  cascade  classification  from  OpenCV (Bradski 2000), an open source library with optimized algorithms for image analysis, is applied for facial recog- nition on profile images. CNN  image  classification:    Adapting  state-of-the-art techniques, we build a CNN-based profile image classi- fication model.  The network architecture is elaborated in Rothe  et al.  (2018).    The  model  is  trained  on IMDB- WIKI face images dataset14 with age and gender labels (Rothe et al. 2018).  Since the dataset is derived from celebrities’ images on IMDb and Wikipedia, we further obtain  race  labels  crawled  from  their  profiles  on Wikipedia when they are available. A linear combination of Stage 1 and Stage 2 results is used for attribute classification, that is y^ = arg maxy  i = 1Prstage(i) G2 2 where  Pr  stands  for  probability  and  SVM  classifier  is employed for distant supervision classification.  It does not provide probability estimates directly; probabilities are calcu- lated using five-fold cross-validation.  We use the following value sets for each attribute:   gender = y0{male, female}, age = y0{# 20, > 20}, and race = y0{caucasian, african american, asian & pacific islander, american indian, hispanic}. Repurposing, Integrating and Analyzing Heterogeneous Data with Varied Spatial–Temporal Resolutions Due to the complexity of asthma triggers and risk factors, our methods  require  signals  from  multiple  heterogeneous  data sources and the capability to process data with a wide range of temporal (as is shown in Table 3; e.g., minute, hour, day, week, month, or year) and spatial resolutions (as is shown in Tables 3 and 4, including point and polygon coordinates). The  following  steps  are  taken  to  integrate  and  fuse  these highly heterogeneous datasets. (1) Spatially,  the  point  coordinates  are  interpolated  to polygon coordinates at the county level by applying a 13https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_stru.htm#00-0000 14https://data.vision.ee.ethz.ch/cvl/rrothe/imdb-wiki/ 316 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 8.  Appearance-Based Profile Image Classification Table 3.  Asthma Triggers/Risk Factors and Extracted Features Factor Data Type/Value Gender M;F† Race C;B;A;I;H§ Age Group < 20:> 20 Occupation {Occupations} Sentiment Profile Irregular Work- Rest Smoking Drinking Medication Exercise Other Behaviors {0.0–1.0} True; False True; False True; False True; False True; False Temperature Floating Dew Point Sky Condition Humidity Snow Depth Snow Fall Precipitation Precipitation Flag Temperature Departure Heat (> 65ºF) Cool (< 65ºF) Wind Speed Direction of Wind PM 2.5 AQI PM 10 AQI Floating Enumerated  Floating Floating True; False Floating True; False Floating Floating Floating Floating Enumerated  Integer Integer Features fgender frace fage foccupation fsentiment – x where x 0 {[high, middle,low]} firregular fsmoking fdrinking fmedication fexercise fbeh – name fterm –- x where x 0 {min, max, mean, 1, 3, 5, (+1), (+3), (+5) [high, middle, low]} fdew – mean fsky_condition = x where x 0 {see note‡} fhumidity – x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fsnow – x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low] fsnow fprecipitation where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fpre fdepart –x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fheat –x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fcool –x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fwind_speed –x where x 0 {mean, [high, middle, low]} fwind_direction faqi25 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} faqi10 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} Data  Source Cat. Original Temporal Granularity Original Spatial Granularity 1 1 1 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Social Media User Profile Social Media Archived Tweets Local Weather Data Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Minute Minute Minute Minute Minute Minute Minute Hour Day Day Hour Day Day Day Day Day Day Day Day Day Day Day MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 317 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Percentage Percentage Integer Integer Integer Integer Integer Floating Floating Floating Floating Floating Floating Floating O3 AQI CO AQI SO2 AQI NO2 AQI Pb AQI PM2.5 C PM10 C O3 C CO C SO2 C NO2 C Pb C Unemploy- ment Rate Median Household Income Education (> College) Education (< High School) Percentage Percentage Poverty Rate Tobacco Use Percentage Food Environ- ment Index Physical Inactivity Alcohol Use Drug Use Access to Health Services Quality of Healthcare ILI Activity Level ILI Activity Level Label % Respiratory Specimens (Positive for Flu) Percentage Percentage Ratio Integer Integer Integer Percentage Integer Enumerated Percentage faqioz –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} faqico –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]}   faqiso2 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]}  faqino2 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]}   faqipn2 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]}  fc25 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]}  fc10 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} fcoz –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} fcco –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} fcso2 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} fcno2 –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} fcpb –x where x 0 {mean, (+1), (+3), (+5),[high, middle, low]} funemployment –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fmed_inc –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fabove-col –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fbelow-hig –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fpoverty –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} ftobacco –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} ffood_environment_index –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fphysical_inactivity –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} falcohol –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fdrug –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} faccess_health_services –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fquality_healthcare –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} fili_activity_level –x where x 0 {[1, 10]}* fili_activity_label –x where x 0 {[insufficient data, minimal, low, moderate, high]}# fflu_positive –x where x 0 {[high, middle, low]} 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 4 4 5 5 5 Day Day Day Day Day Hour Hour Hour Hour Hour Hour Hour Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Outdoor Air Quality Data Economic Research Service Data County Health Rankings & Roadmap Outpatient Illness Survei- llance Data Week Week Week Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Polygon Factors:  AQI = Air Quality Indexes; C = Concentration Values; ILI = Influenza-Like Illness. Value:  †:  M = male; F = female. §C = Caucasian; B = African American; A = Asian & Pacific Islander; I = American Indian; H = Hispanic. ‡Sky Condition:  FG = Fog, ice fog, or freezing fog (may include heavy fog); TS = Thunder; PL = Ice pellets, sleet, snow pellets or small hail; GR = Hail (may include small hail); GL = Glaze or rime; DU = Dust, volcanic ash, blowing dust, blowing sand or blowing obstruction; HZ = Smoke or haze; BLSN = Blowing or drifting snow; FC = Tornado, water spout or funnel cloud; WIND = High or damaging winds; BLPY = Blowing spray; BR = Mist; DZ = Drizzle; FZDZ = Freezing drizzle; RA = Rain; FZRA = Freezing rain; SN = Snow, snow pellets, snow grains or ice crystals; UP = Unknown precipitation; MIFG = Ground fog; FZFG = Ice fog or freezing fog. *The 10 activity levels correspond to the number of standard deviations, at or above the mean for the current week compared with the mean of the non-influenza weeks. #10 activity levels classified as minimal (levels 1–3), low (levels 4–5), moderate (levels 6–7), and high (levels 8–10). Cat. = Category:  1 = Biological and demographic factors; 2 = Environmental factors; 3 = Behavioral factors; 4 = Social and psychological factors; 5 = Inflammatory and infectious factors. 318 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 geometric inference algorithm.  Specifically, we employ a point-in-polygon method to ascertain if a discrete point lies within a particular polygon (Laurini and Thompson 1992).  For instance, we may have a set of point coor- dinates  representing  the  location  of  environmental sensors which need to be combined with socioeconomic census data that are available by areas (i.e., with polygon coordinates).    The  point-in-polygon  method  identifies which of the point coordinates fall into which polygon coordinates.    To  accomplish  this,  we  adapt  the  ray casting algorithm (Shimrat 1962).  In this research, we ÷ R cast from the test point coordinates define a ray  ÷ that serves as the origin of  Pi(i = 1, …, l) as the edges of the polygon (e.g., polygon coordinates of a ÷ ÷ R 1  county).  Compute the intersections n =  Pi, , if n = 2k + 1 (k 0 N) then point-in-polygon is true.  Figure 9 shows an  example  of  the  ray  casting  algorithm  used  in  this study. ÷ R.  Define  ÷ R, let  (2) Temporally,  all  data  are  gathered  from  the  same  time period (2013–2016).  All data records are aggregated (i.e., minutely and hourly data) or decomposed by day (all other data except minutely, hourly and daily data). (3) For real-valued factors, three features are extracted when feasible:  fmax, fmin, and  fmean.  We also compute the rela- tive differences for weather factors, for example, ftem – 3 indicates the absolute temperature difference between the average of the current day (a day with  asthma exacer- bation) and the average of three days before the current day.  In addition, the cumulative mean of pollutants and temperature  are  also  computed,  for  example,  fno2–(3+) represents the cumulative mean of NO2 for three days.  Besides  the actual values,  we also convert  them from numerical to categorical values (high, middle and low) based  on  the  first  (Q1)  and  third  quartiles  (Q3),  for example, ftem–mean[high] indicates that the average tempera- ture experienced by an asthma patient on a particular day is above Q3 of the temperature (in the top 25th  percentile of temperature range) for that patient’s county. In  total,  we  extract  270  individual  asthma  triggers  or  risk factors, as shown in Table 3. Asthma Trigger and Risk Factors Assessment with Relative Importance In this section, we describe methods to discover the relation- ships among asthma risk factors and determine their relative importance. Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma First,  we  analyze  features  by  adapting  sequential  pattern mining (SPM) to find statistically significant triggers and risk factors  when  they  appear  or  occur  in  a  chronological sequence.  The identified sequential patterns are then input to a subsequent machine learning method to identify the relative importance of asthma triggers and risk factors (see Appendix B, Figure B1).  SPM is one of the major machine learning approaches for detecting frequent subsequences in a set of data records, where all records are ordered events (Mabrou- keh and Ezeife 2010).  In this study, we adapt SPM for feature extraction.  A feature is defined as a representative sequence of asthma triggers or risk factors that appear with a frequency no less than a specified threshold (Han et al. 2007).  We use an efficient state-of-the-art method called PrefixSpan (Pei et al. 2001).  One significant advantage of this method is that it works in a recursive and divide-and-conquer manner, making it amenable for parallel implementation. This analysis is important because asthma patients may be exposed  to  multiple  triggers  or  risk  factors  in  a  specific chronological order, thus making it necessary to investigate the sequential effects of risk factors on asthma exacerbation.  Here we explain how we adapt SPM to our research setting.  We identify an individual asthma patient as Pi.  An asthma trigger or risk factor on day d is defined as fd t, where t is a feature  type,  for  example  ftemperature  indicates  the  feature:  temperature.  Let FPi = {f d n}  be the set of all risk t factors  associated  with patient    Pi,  where  d1    d2  …    dn  indicates  a  chronological  order  of  the  feature  values.    A sequence database ä can be defined as ä = {FP1 , …, FPm}.  A factor-set is a subset of FP1 .  A sequence á is an ordered list of a factor-set.  Given a positive number î as the support threshold, a sequence á is defined as a frequent sequential pattern  in  the  sequence  database  ä.    Given  a  sequence database and a min_support threshold îmin, the problem of sequential pattern mining in our current research setting is to find the complete set of frequent sequential patterns {á} in the database ä. 2, … f d t 1, f d t , FP2 We  use  random  forest  (RF)  (Breiman  2001)  to  measure feature importance based on the decrease in average feature impurity (see Appendix B for more detailed explanation).  RF, an ensemble-based machine learning method, is one of the most powerful algorithms for classification.  RF fits a number of decision tree classifiers (Han et al. 2011) on various sub- samples  of  the  dataset  and  uses  averaging  to  improve  the predictive accuracy and control over-fitting.  It can combine weak and strong learners, provide improved performance, and results in better scalability using fewer hyper-parameters (i.e., values are set before the learning process begins).  It also provides a natural way to measure feature importance as the MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 319 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 9.  Illustration of the Ray Casting Algorithm (adapted from Laurini and Thompson 1992) average feature impurity decreases (Strobl et al. 2007).  There are two reasons why we use RF in this study: always  less  than  the  parent  node.    A  tree  node  with higher impurity indicates a node with higher importance. (1) As shown in Table 3, asthma risk factors have a large range of values of different data types.  As a tree-based ensemble algorithm, RF is useful for integrating different data types and does not mandate any feature scaling. (2) Certain features may be closely related to each other, for example,  the  icrease  in  precipitation  (i.e.,  fprecipitation) generally increases relative humidity levels (i.e., fhumidity).  Also, the feature space may be not linearly separable.  RF makes no assumptions regarding linearity.  Following the supervised learning paradigm, we define the problem as a probabilistic classification problem Pr(Y|X) (Pr stands for probability).  × denotes the input space (including individual  features  extracted  from  heterogeneous  data sources (see Table 3) and sequential features obtained from SPM (see Table 6)), with the output space being Y = {-1:  no asthma affliction, 1:  asthma affliction}.  For analysis, we collect an equal number of Twitter users who never reported an asthma affliction to balance the data set.  We first define n tree classifiers, for the kth tree, a bootstrap sample of × is generated as XÈk , resulting in a classifier Pr(Y | XÈk ).  The classification result of RF is obtained by averaging the probabilistic prediction of all k GPr(Y | XÈk ), the predicted n trees as y^ = arg maxy  1 class is the one with the highest probability.  The training process  provides  useful  internal  estimates  of  feature importance as the average feature impurity (i.e., tree node impurity) decreases.  In this study, we adopt a widely used impurity measure, the Gini index:  I = 1 – G( )p(i|t)2, 1 , – 1     = i  1 where p(i|t) is the proportion of samples that belong to one class for a particular node t in a tree.  The Gini index is used for the calculation of splits during RF training.  The Gini impurity for the descendent nodes in a tree is 320 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Implementation and Evaluation  In the design science paradigm, the evaluation of an artifact provides feedback information and a better understanding of the problem in order to improve both the quality of the design product  and  the  design  process.    Our  evaluation  plan  and procedures are summarized in Figure 10. In this study, two main parts need to be evaluated. (1) The two-stage model proposed for deriving user charac- teristics  of  self-reported  asthma  patients  from  social media.  We collect annotated data from two researchers as the ground truth for each Twitter users’ characteristics (i.e., gender, race, age group, occupation, sentiment, and behavior).    We  then  use  Cohen’s  Kappa  coefficient (Cohen 1960) to measure the inter-rater agreement be- tween human annotators and the difficulty of the classifi- cation tasks.  Next, we compare our proposed two-stage model with state-of-the-art baseline methods by applying K-fold cross-validation. (2) Sequential  pattern  mining  and  random  forest  for  ex- tracting asthma triggers/risk factors, their interconnecting relations and their relative importance.  First, we work with asthma specialists to evaluate the meaningfulness of extracted  sequential  patterns  (i.e.,  results  of  SPM).  Second, the classification results of random forest for comparing asthma versus non-asthma patients were pro- vided to these experts to evaluate if the relative impor- tance of asthma triggers and risk factors are meaningful. Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Figure 10.  Evaluation Plan and Procedures Third, medical articles (PubMed) are used to evaluate how the detected  asthma risk triggers and factors  can mirror the medical consensus. We emphasize two techniques used in the evaluation process. (1) K-fold cross-validation is a well-known model evaluation technique.  We first apply the k-fold cross-validation to evaluate the performance of proposed two-stage model for social media user attributes extraction.  We also use k-fold  cross-validation  to  evaluate  the  random  forest classification  results.    In  k-fold  cross-validation,  the original training dataset is randomly split into k equal sized subsamples without replacement.  A single sub- sample  is retained as the testing set,  and the k-1 sub- samples are used for model training.  The process is then repeated k times (i.e., folds).  The final estimation can be made based on averaged testing performance.  The main reasons for adopting this validation technique are that it will not lose model significance and testing capability when the available annotated dataset is relatively small, and it is able  to estimate how the performance  of the model can be generalized to an independent dataset. (2) Medical literature-based evaluation.  We first examine whether the extracted asthma risk factors agree with the general  medical  consensus  on  asthma trigger and  risk factors in research articles from PubMed.15  This is ac- complished by collecting a corpus of asthma trigger and risk factor mentions in PubMed citations.  We also inves- 15 PubMed is a service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine that provides free access to 27 million citations and abstracts for biomedical literature from MEDLINE, life science journals, and online books ( www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ pubmed/). tigate if there are risk factors that our study identified, which have not received adequate attention in the bio- medical literature, and evaluate if these identified triggers and  risk  factors  and  their  relative  importance  extends medical knowledge. Analysis, Results, and Discussion In this section, we discuss the implementation process, the evaluation results of our methods, and the interpretation of the results.   Data Collection and Processing  We collected large datasets from social media, environmental sensors, socioeconomic census, and outpatient illness surveil- lance  data  for  a  three-year  period  from  2013  to  2016 (Table 4). We  applied  the  signal  extraction  process,  described  pre- viously,  to  the  social  media  streaming  dataset  to  identify potential asthma patients.  We were able to identify 9,096 potential  asthma  patients  in  the  United  States  who  self- reported asthma affliction.  Moreover, after the data cleaning process, all datasets were integrated temporally and spatially (using  methods  we  described  previously  in  the  “Research Design” section). Characteristics of Potential Asthma Patients from Social Media As described earlier, we relied on three types of signals to infer the characteristics of potential asthma patients from MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 321 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Table 4.  Datasets Description Dataset Asthma-related Twitter Stream Data Potential Asthma Patients’ Twitter Archives Local Weather Data Outdoor Air Quality Data Socio-Economic Census Data Number of Records 17,175,642 28,197,612 2,496,157 PM2.5 PM10 O3 CO SO2 NO2 Pb Education Poverty Unemploy ment Population  1,546,319 473,543 1,450,491 550,687 590,148 554,097 71,850 3,283 3,194 3,274 3,273 Collection Period 11/1/2013~ 12/30/2016 1/1/2013~ 12/30/2016 Geo Area Comments Worldwide U.S. U.S. Twitter streaming API.  Using 18 asthma-related keyword. 9,096 self-reported asthma patients in the U.S. were identified. Collected along with WBAN. Coordinate Type Point coordinates Point coordinates Point coordinates 1/1/2013~ 12/30/2016 U.S. Collected along with AQS-SITE-ID. Point coordinates 2013~2016 U.S. Collected along with rural/urban codes code. Polygon coordinates Collected along with FIPS code. Collected along with state name. 12,548 14,026 14,500 U.S. 2013~2016 U.S. 2013~2016 County Health Rankings & Roadmap Influenza-like illness surveillance data Weekly U.S. Influenza Surveillance Report *Region classifications16 Region 1:  Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont Region 2:  New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands Region 3:  Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia Region 4:  Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee Region 5:  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin Region 6:  Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas Region 7:  Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska Region 8:  Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming Region 9:  Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada Region 10:  Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington 2013~2016 U.S. Collected along with region number.* Polygon coordinates Polygon coordinates Polygon coordinates 16https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/overview.htm 322 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 social media data, namely social media user profiles, profile images, and archived tweets.  To evaluate the performance of our two-stage model for social media users’ characteristics extraction,  two  researchers  were  invited  to annotate  1,200 Twitter users’ attributes (e.g., age group, gender, race, etc.) based on their profiles and 1,500 tweets (i.e., tweets including users’ sentiment and various behaviors).  We used Cohen’s Kappa coefficient17 to measure the inter-rater agreement be- tween two human annotators (Kappa has a range from 0 to 1, with larger values indicating better reliability), and evaluate the difficulty of the classification tasks (as machine learning models are not likely to surpass human-level performance in this research setting and the level of disagreement between human annotators indicates the difficulty of the classification tasks). Table 5 shows  the annotation statistics.   According to the interpretation of Landis and Koch (1977), Kappa results range from 0 to 1.  The higher the value of Kappa, the stronger the agreement  between  annotators  (<  0.20  slight  agreement; 0.21–0.40  fair  agreement;  0.41–0.60  moderate  agreement; 0.61–0.80 substantial agreement; 0.81–1.00 perfect or almost perfect agreement).  A Kappa coefficient above 0.2 is gener- ally regarded as acceptable (Landis and Koch 1977).  We ob- serve that the Kappa coefficients of the multi-label classifi- cation tasks (i.e., race, Kappa = 0.37; occupation, Kappa = 0.22; and behavior, Kappa = 0.35) are consistently lower than the binary classification tasks (i.e., gender, Kappa = 0.73; age group,  Kappa  =  0.60;  and  sentiment,  Kappa  =  0.76),  sug- gesting they may be challenging for both human and machine interpretations.  In particular, occupation detection is a diffi- cult  task  even  for  human  annotators  because  of  a  lot  of missing values. We then tested our two-stage model on the annotated datasets. In  stage  1,  the  widely  used  SVM  classifier  (Cortes  and Vapnik 1995) was employed for distant supervision classifi- cation.  For stage 2, the appearance based CNN profile image classification model was trained on the IMDB-WIKI dataset.  We adopt accuracy and F1-score as our evaluation metrics.  Accuracy  is  a  description  of  model  errors,  defined  as i = 1I(y, y^),  where I(x) is the indicator accuracy(y, y^) =  1 function having a value of 1 if the predicted label y^ matches with the true label y.  The F1 score is defined as the harmonic R, where precision (P) is a 2 P mean of precision and recall F1 = P R + measure of result relevance, while recall  (R) is a measure of how many truly relevant results are returned.  Ten-fold cross- validation is conducted and the results are presented in Figure 11. n Gn 17 e –     p   p p e,  where  p0  is  the  relative  observed  agreement  among  0 kappa  =   1   – annotators (i.e., accuracy) and pe is the hypothetical probability of chance agreement (Cohen 1960). Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Two  baselines,  random  choice  and  state-of-the-art  perfor- mance, were adopted from the literature (Chen et al. 2015; Go et al. 2009; Sloan et al. 2015).  The results show that our proposed  model  produces  results  that  are  comparable  or outperform the state-of-the-art methods. After analyzing the results in detail, we observed that social media users’ attributes are often not explicitly provided by users through their profiles which leads to a less favorable result in terms of accuracy and F1 scores in stage 1 of the model, which relied on distant supervision classification with weak labels.  We believe the reasons for this are threefold:  (1) anonymity and pseudonymity:  social media user profiles may disconnect from real-world identities despite what pre- vious studies have indicated; (2) missing data:  there are many missing values in some user profile fields (e.g., occupation); (3) weak labels may lack predictive power for certain tasks (e.g., last name as weak labels for race detection).  Hence, incorporating profile images is a way to take advantage of all useful and available information.  By combining the stage 1 (distant  supervision)  and  stage  2  (CNN)  of  the  two-stage model, the age group, gender, and race detection accuracy improved significantly, which suggests that the profile images are good complementary signals for detecting social media users’ attributes.  We show a subset of the demographic infor- mation extracted from social media data (Figure 12). Asthma Risk Factors Assessment Asthma triggers and risk factors assessment, as described in the previous sections, consists of two parts:  SPM for un- covering the sequential patterns of triggers and risk factors contributing to asthma exacerbations as features, and RF for measuring the relative importance of asthma risk factors. We  first  present  the  results  of  SPM  regarding  frequent sequential  patterns  of  asthma  risk  factors.    Two  hyper- parameters (i.e., values are set before the learning process begins) need to be specified:  (1) The min_support threshold  îmin for the PrefixSpan algorithm.  We set îmin = 0.05 to ensure that we do not miss interesting patterns when the discovered features are frequent; (2) the observation interval ë, which represents the number of days before a self-reported asthma exacerbation  episode.    Based  on  suggestions  from  asthma specialists and also considering the length of time risk factors tend to linger, we set ë = 5 for environmental factors, ë = 90 for behavioral and psychological factors, ë =  365 for social factors, and ë = 4 for biological factors.  The results reveal a number of interesting patterns.  All the results were evaluated and validated by asthma specialists who worked with us to interpret  the  results.    In  all,  88  sequential  patterns  were selected as features for further analysis (Table 6).  Our asthma MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 323 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Table 5.  Annotation Statistics (Annotated Dataset for Two-Stage Model Evaluation) Attributes Gender Race Annotations M; F; nan C;B;A;I;H; nan Age Group #20; >20; nan Occupation Multi-labels (e.g., Chemists, Barbers, etc.) Sentiment Positive; Negative; nan Behavior Multi-labels (e.g., drinking, smoking, etc.) 0.73 0.37 0.60 Twitter user profile & profile images Kappa Annotation Object Number of Records Kappa value interpretation:  <  0.20 slight; 0.21–0.40 fair; 0.41–0.60 moderate; 0.61–0.80 substantial; 0.81–1.00 almost perfect (Landis and Koch 1977). Annotations:  M = Male; F = Female; C = Caucasian; B = African America; A = Asian & Pacific Islander; I = American Indian; H = Hispanic; nan = Unknown or not available. Tweets 1500 1200 0.22 0.76 0.35 Figure 11.  Two-Stage Social Media Based User Attributes Extraction Model Figure 12.  Demographic Information Extracted from Social Media Data nan:  Unknown or not available. 324 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Table 6.  Frequent Sequential Patterns Extracted Frequent Sequential Patterns Extracted f_{above_college=high}, f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=high} f_{age>20}, f_{gender=female} f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle}, f_{exe=T} f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle}, f_{med=T} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle}, f_{cat_une_rate=middle} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle}, f_{depart_mean=middle} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle}, f_{humidity_mean=high} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle}, f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle}, f_{sen=low} f_{cat_food_environment_index=middle}, f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low}, f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low}, f_{cat_med_inc=high} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low}, f_{humidity_mean=high} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low}, f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low}, f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{depart_mean=middle}, f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{depart_mean=middle}, f_{heat_mean=middle} f_{dew_mean=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} f_{exe=T}, f_{med=T} Cat. 3 & 4 1 3 3 3 & 4 2 & 3 2 & 3 3 & 5 3 & 4 3 3 3 & 4 2 & 3 2 & 3 2 2 2 2 3 f_{exe=T}, f_{med=T}, f_{sen=low} 3 & 4 f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{concentration_pm25=high} f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{depart_mean=middle} 2 2 2 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Explanation Percent of adults with a bachelor’s degree or higher is high (> Q3); Alcohol-impaired deaths is high (> Q3) Age > 20; Gender is female Alcohol-impaired deaths is middle (> Q1); Take exercise in the previous 90 days Alcohol-impaired deaths is middle (> Q1); Take medicine in the previous 90 days Percentage of adults reporting heavy drinking is middle (> Q1); Unemployment rate is middle (> Q1) Percentage of adults reporting heavy drinking is middle (> Q1); Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1) Percentage of adults reporting heavy drinking is middle (> Q1); Humidity level is high (> Q3) Percentage of adults reporting heavy drinking is middle (> Q1); Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations Percentage of adults reporting heavy drinking is middle (> Q1); Sentiment level is low (< Q1) Food environment index is middle (< Q3); Alcohol-impaired deaths is middle (> Q1) Percentage of adults reporting no leisure-time physical activity is low (< Q1); Alcohol-impaired deaths is middle (> Q1) Percentage of adults reporting leisure-time physical activity is low (< Q1); Median household income is high (> Q3) Percentage of adults reporting leisure-time physical activity is low (< Q1); Humidity level is high (> Q3) Percentage of adults reporting leisure-time physical activity is low (< Q1); Humidity level is low (< Q1) Percentage of adults reporting leisure-time physical activity is low (< Q1); Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1); Heating degree is middle (> Q1) Dew point temperature is low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Take exercise in the previous 90 days; Take medicine in the previous 90 days Take exercise in the previous 90 days; Take medicine in the previous 90 days; Sentiment level is low (< Q1) Humidity level is high (> Q3); Daily concentration pm25 is high (> Q3) Humidity level is high (> Q3); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Humidity level is high (> Q3); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Humidity level is high (> Q3); Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1) MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 325 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{heat_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{tem_mean_+5=high} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{concentration_pm25=high} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{depart_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{heat_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{seafood=T} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{tem_max_+5=low} f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{wind_speed=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{cat_pov_all=middle}, f_{cat_pov_017=middle} 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 & 3 2 2 3 & 5 f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{cat_pov_all=middle}, f_{heat_mean=middle} 2 & 3 & 5 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{cool_mean=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{exe=T} f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{humidity_mean=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{med=T}, f_{sen=low} 43 f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{positive_flu=middle} 2 & 5 2 & 5 3 & 5 2 & 5 3 & 4 & 5 5 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 f_{ili_act_label=minimal}, f_{tem_min_+5=middle} 2 & 5 f_{med=T}, f_{heat_mean=middle} f_{med=T}, f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{race=hispanics}, f_{cat_med_inc=low} f_{sen=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{sen=low}, f_{depart_mean=middle} f_{sen=low}, f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{sky_condition=BR}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} 2 & 3 2 & 3 1 & 4 2 & 4 2 & 4 2 & 4 2 326 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Humidity level is high (> Q3); Heating degree is middle (> Q1) Humidity level is high (> Q3); Average temperature for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 is high (> Q3) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Heating degree is middle (> Q1) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Take seafood in the previous 90 days; Humidity level is low (< Q1); Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1) Humidity level is low (< Q1); Wind speed is high (> Q3) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Estimated percent of people of all ages in poverty is middle (> Q1); Estimated percent of people age 0-17 in poverty is middle (> Q1) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Estimated percent of people of all ages in poverty is middle (> Q1); Heating degree is middle (> Q1) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Cooling degree is high (> Q3) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Take exercise in the previous 90 days Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Humidity level is high (> Q3) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Take medicine in the previous 90 days; Sentiment level is low (< Q1) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Percentage of respiratory specimens positive for flu is middle (> Q1) Influenza-like illness activity level above the mean by 1-3 deviations; Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1) Take medicine in the previous 90 days; Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Take medicine in the previous 90 days; Humidity level is low (< Q1) Race is Hispanic; Median household income is low (< Q1) Sentiment level is low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1) Sentiment level is low (< Q1); Average temperature’s departure from normal temperature is middle (> Q1) Sentiment level is low (< Q1); Humidity level is low (< Q1) Sky condition is Mist; Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 f_{sky_condition=RA BR}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{sky_condition=RA}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_max=low}, f_{concentration_co_+5=high} f_{tem_max_+1=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_max_+1=low}, f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{tem_max_+1=low}, f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{concentration_pm25=high} f_{tem_max_+3=low}, f_{daily_aqi_no2_+1=high} f_{tem_max_+3=low}, f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{daily_aqi_no2=high} f_{tem_max_+3=low}, f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=middle} f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25=high} f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{concentration_co_+1=high} f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{concentration_co_+3=high} f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{concentration_co=high} f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{tem_max_+3=low}, f_{concentration_no2=high} f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{concentration_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle}, f_{daily_aqi_co_+3=high} f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{daily_aqi_co_+1=high} f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{daily_aqi_no2_+1=middle} 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Sky condition is Rain & Mist; Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Sky condition is Rain; Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature is low (< Q1); Daily concentration co for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 is high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 3 days are low (<Q1); Daily AQI no2 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 3 days are low (<Q1); Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (<Q1); Daily AQI no2 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 3 days are low (<Q1); Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (<Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is middle (> Q1) Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Humidity level is low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Daily AQI co previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (<Q1); Daily concentration co for previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Daily concentration co is high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Maximum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration no2 is high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily AQI co previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI co previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI no2 previous 1 day is middle (> Q1) MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 327 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle},  f_{daily_aqi_no2_+5=middle} f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{daily_aqi_no2_+5=high} f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{humidity_mean=low}, f_{daily_aqi_no2_=high} f_{tem_min_+1=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_min_+1=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} f_{tem_min_+1=low}, f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=middle} f_{tem_min_+1=low}, f_{tem_mean_+1=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=middle} f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+5=high} f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{tem_max_+5=low}, f_{daily_aqi_pm25=middle} f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{tem_mean_+3=low}, f_{concentration_no2_+1=high} f_{tem_min_+3=low}, f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{concentration_no2_+5=high} f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{concentration_co_+1=high} f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{cool_mean=middle}, f_{concentration_no2=high} f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{concentration_pm25_+3=high} f_{tem_min_+5=low}, f_{tem_mean_+5=low}, f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 f_{toy=T}, f_{sen=low} 3 & 4 Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily AQI no2 previous 5 days are middle (> Q1) Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI no2 previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Humidity level is low (< Q1); Daily AQI no2 is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Humidity level is high (> Q3); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are middle (> Q1) Minimum temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 1 day is low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Maximum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily AQI pm25 is middle (> Q1) Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration no2 for previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 3 days are low (< Q1); Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration no2 for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration co for previous 1 day is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Cooling degree is middle (> Q1); Daily concentration no2 is high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Humidity level is high (> Q3); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 3 days are high (> Q3) Minimum temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Average temperature for previous 5 days are low (< Q1); Daily concentration pm25 for previous 5 days are high (> Q3) Mention toys in previous 90 days; Sentiment level is low (< Q1) Cat.  = Category:  1 = Biological and demographic factors; 2 = Environmental factors; 3 = Behavioral factors; 4 = Social and psychological factors; 5 = Inflammatory and infectious factors Order:  Sequential frequent patterns are sorted in lexicographically ascending order Q1:  The 25th perrcentile as the first quartile; Q3:  The 75th  percentile as the third quartile 328 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 specialists determined that these patterns are meaningful and useful; they also verified that some of these patterns extend their current understanding of asthma triggers and risk factors.  The frequent patterns are sorted in lexicographic ascending order. We also report the results from using RF to determine the relative importance of asthma triggers and risk factors.  There are two major hyper-parameters (i.e., values are set before the learning process begins):  the depth of the forest (d) and the number of trees (n), we set d = 20 and n = 400 by using 10- fold  cross-validation.    The  tuned  model  was  then  used  to evaluate the importance of features.  All features shown in Table  3  combined  with  frequently  occurring  sequences  of asthma triggers and risk factors, obtained from the sequential pattern mining process (Table 6), are the input space for the learner.  A total of 358 features were analyzed and we report on the most significant asthma triggers and risk factors overall in  the  United  States  and  also  in  10  different  U.S.  regions (Figure 13).  All the results were evaluated and validated by asthma experts who worked with us to interpret the results. As described in the previous section, feature importance is defined by the Gini impurity.  The most significant features are reported based on the criteria suggested by asthma spe- cialists.  For the entire United States, we report features with Gini importance scores greater than 0.02; for the individual regions, we report features with Gini importance greater than 0.015.  All reported asthma triggers and risk factors are sorted in descending order of Gini scores. Evaluation of Methods and Results  In this subsection, we report on the evaluation results and determine  how  well  they  align  with  previously  published medical literature. As  discussed  in  the  previous  section,  the  importance  of asthma triggers and risk factors were determined using the RF classification process based on self-reported asthma patients identified from social media.  Table 7 shows the RF classi- fication results (based on data from the entire United States). A  10-fold  cross-validation  is  applied.    We  first  report  the classification results by using all features from five categories of asthma triggers and risk factors.  The classification results are  found  to  be  stable  (see  Table  7,  Feature  set  =  ALL, accuracy = 85.6%, F1(affliction) = 85.1%, F1(no-affliction) = 86.1%) which, in turn, show that the reported asthma trig- gers and risk factors are useful for distinguishing users with asthma affliction from those without. We also report on classification results obtained from using each of the five categories of asthma triggers and risk factors Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma (see Table 7).  When using either environmental (Cat. = 2) or behavioral  (Cat.  =  3)  attributes,  classification  accuracy  is moderate, ranging from 60.0% to 74.3%; when using bio- logical and demographic factors (Cat. = 1), social and psycho- logical  factors  (Cat.  =  4)  or  inflammatory  and  infectious factors (Cat. = 5), classification accuracy is low (slightly over 50%).  However, when all five categories are used together, classification  performance  improved  significantly  (85.6%) demonstrating that asthma triggers and risk factors are com- plex, and may have some interactions.  The results also rein- force the deficiency of past studies which typically focused on one or two types of asthma triggers or risk factors. In  addition,  we  implemented  a  greedy  feature  selection method to gain insights into the contribution of different cate- gories of asthma triggers and risk factors.  We initialized the feature  selection  process  with  the  most  predictive  feature group (i.e.,  the one with the best performance).  Then we incrementally added another feature group that provided the highest accuracy improvement to the feature set.  Note the results need to be interpreted with care.  For example, if two feature  groups  are  highly  correlated,  the  algorithm  would choose one at random and discard the other.  Therefore, if a feature group is missing from the selection process it implies that the feature is either less useful, or strongly correlated with other features in the list.  Table 8 summarizes the out- comes of this feature selection process.   Category (Cat.) = x, x 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} indicates each of the five asthma triggers and risk factors categories.  Category (Cat.) = x* or Category (Cat.) = x & y, where x 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, y 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} specify the asthma triggers and risk factors patterns extracted from the frequent sequential mining process.  For example, Cat. = 2* shows frequent sequential patterns between two or more environmental factors (e.g., f_{humidity_mean=high}, f_{concentration_pm25=high}:  Humidity level is high; Daily concentration pm2.5 is high); Cat. = 2 & 3 indicates frequent sequential  patterns  between  environmental  and  behavioral factors  f_{seafood=T}:  Humidity level is low; consuming seafood in the previous 90 days is True).  The results show that the selected features span all the five asthma triggers and risk factors categories.  The vast majority are taken from the environmental features (Cat. = 2 and Cat. = 2*).  Behavioral factors (Cat. = 3), social and psychological factors (Cat. = 4) and their interconnections (Cat. = 3 & 4) also contribute to improved accuracy.  More- over, the frequent sequential patterns of asthma risk factors (Table 8, Cat. = 3 & 4, Cat. = 2 & 4, Cat. = 2 & 3, Cat. = 3 & 5, Cat. = 2 & 5, Cat. = 3*, Cat. = 1*, Cat. = 3 & 4 & 5, and Cat. = 5*) add a lot of value to the feature set, resulting in significant improvement in accuracy.  The results show that asthma exacerbation may be related to multiple risk factors.  This reinforces the need to investigate the sequential effects of triggers and risk factors on asthma exacerbation. f_{humidity_mean=low},  (e.g.,  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 329 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma United States f_{sky_condition=BR} f_{exe=T},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{exe=T},f_{sen=low} f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle},f_{exe=T} f_{sen=low},f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{exe=T} f_{activity_level=low} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{sen=low} f_{depart_mean=middle},f_{cool_mean=middle} Region 1:  Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{tem_min_+5=middle} f_{tem_min_+5=low},f_{concentration_co_+1=high} f_{exe=T},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{daily_aqi_so2=high} f_{age>20},f_{gender=female} f_{sen=low}, f_{humidity_mean=low} Region 2:  New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.  Virgin Islands f_{humidity_mean=low},f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} f_{exe=T},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{tem_mean_+1=low},f_{concentration_co=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low},f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle} f_{tem_mean_+3=low},f_{daily_aqi_co_+1=high} Region 3:  Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia f_{sen=low},f_{depart_mean=middle} f_{concentration_pb_+5=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{positive_flu=middle} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{exe=T},f_{sen=low} Region 4:  Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low},f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{concentration_pm10_+3=high} f_{exe=T},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle},f_{exe=T} f_{humidity_mean=high},f_{concentration_pm25=high} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{exe=T} Region 5:  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin f_{tem_max=low},f_{concentration_co_+5=high} f_{concentration_so2=high} f_{sky_condition=BR} f_{cat_med_inc=low} f_{activity_level=low} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{ili_act_label=minimal} 330 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Region 6:  Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{exe=T} f_{sky_condition=BR} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{sen=low} f_{depart_mean=middle},f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{risk_race=hispanic} Region 7:  Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska f_{access_to_health_services=low} f_{humidity_mean=low},f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{med=T},f_{humidity_mean=low} f_{tem_mean_+1=low},f_{tem_mean_+5=low},f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{sen=low},f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{exe=T},f_{sen=low} Region 8:  Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{tem_min_+5=middle} f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{tem_min_+1=low} f_{cat_physical_inactivity=low},f_{cat_alcohol_impaired=middle} f_{humidity_mean=low},f_{concentration_pm25_+5=high} f_{depart_mean=middle},f_{cool_mean=middle} Region 9:  Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+5=high} f_{concentration_pb_+3=high} f_{tem_min_+1=high} f_{risk_race=hispanic} f_{sen=low},f_{cool_mean=middle} f_{sky_condition=BR},f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=high} f_{tem_max_+3=low},f_{tem_min_+3=low},f_{daily_aqi_pm25_+1=middle} Region 10:  Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington f_{ili_act_label=minimal},f_{med=T},f_{sen=low} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{ili_act_label=minimal} f_{cat_excessive_drinking=middle},f_{sen=low} f_{concentration_pb_+3=high} f_{age>20},f_{gender=female} f_{cool_mean=high} f_{daily_aqi_pm10_+3=high} Figure 13.  Asthma Triggers and Risk Factors Based on Feature Importance Feature importance:  Gini Importance = Mean Decrease in Impurity. Feature selection criteria:  U.S:  Gini Importance > 0.02; Region 1–10:  Gini Importance > 0.015. Order:  Features are sorted by the descending order of the feature importance. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 331 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Table 7.  Random Forest Classification Results Feature Set Accuracy (%) Affliction  F1 (%) No Affliction  F1 (%) Cat. = 1 Cat. = 2 Cat. = 3 Cat. = 4 Cat. = 5 ALL Feature Set:  Cat. =  x, x 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} ö Asthma triggers and risk factors in category. Cat. = Category:  1 =  Biological and demographic factors; 2 =  Environmental factors; 3 =  Behavioral factors; 4 =  Social and psychological factors; 5 =  Inflammatory and infectious factors. i = 1I(y, y^),, where  I(x)  is the indicator function having the value Accuracy:  The description of model errors, defined as accuracy(y, y^) = n 1 if the predicted label y^ match with the true label y. F1:  The harmonic mean  P   of precision (P) and recall (R). 48.7 73.3 55.7 49.5 48.2 86.1 53.8 75.3 63.5 56.1 53.4 85.1 i Gn 51.4 74.3 60.0 53.1 50.9 85.6 2 P R + R Table 8.  Summary of the Feature Selection Process Iteration Feature Set Accuracy (%) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Cat. = 2 + Cat. = 2* + Cat. = 3 + Cat. = 4 + Cat. = 3 & 4 + Cat. = 2 & 4 + Cat. = 2 & 3 + Cat. = 3 & 5 + Cat. = 1 + Cat. = 2 & 5 + Cat. = 3* + Cat. = 5 + Cat. = 1* + Cat. = 3 & 4 & 5 + Cat. = 5* ALL 74.39 78.94 82.19 82.91 83.51 83.93 84.23 84.47 84.71 84.89 85.07 85.25 85.31 85.37 85.43 85.61 Classifier:  Random forest; 10-fold cross-validation Cat. = Category:  1 = Biological and demographic factors; 2 = Environmental factors; 3 = Behavioral factors; 4 = Social and psychological factors; 5 = Inflammatory and infectious factors Category (Cat.) = x, x 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} indicate one of the five asthma triggers and risk factors categories.  Category (Cat.) = x* or Category (Cat.) = x & y, where x 0 {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}.  y 0{1, 2, 3, 4, 5} specify the frequent asthma triggers and risk factors patterns extracted from the frequent sequential mining process. 332 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Additionally,  since  random  forest  is  not  the  only  method available  for  feature  importance  assessment,  we  provide comparison  results  with  various  other  feature  importance assessment algorithms, including ÷², logistic regression, and generalized additive model (see Table 9).  ÷² is a simple base- line approach for feature selection.  It measures the worth of a  feature  by  computing  the  value  of  the  ÷²  statistic  with respect to the class.  Sparse estimators, such as logistic regres- sion with the L1 penalty, are also useful for feature selection.  Many of the estimated coefficients may be zero and the goal is to select the features with non-zero coefficients.  Gener- alized additive models are state-of-the-art methods for high- dimensional  non-parametric  classification  and  feature selection.  Precision at K (P@K) is introduced to compare the results of different feature selection methods.  Precision at K shows the proportion (%) of the same feature in the top-k feature sets.  The results (see Table 9) show that the feature importance derived from the three methods agree well with each other.  In other words, 86.7% of the top 90 most impor- tant risk factors are the same between random forest and ÷²; 87.7% of the top 90 most important risk factors are the same between random forest and logistic regression (penalty = L1); and 82% of the top 50 most important risk factors are the same between random forest and generalized additive model. The results validate the choice of random forest as the feature importance assessment method. Next, we evaluate how well the identified asthma risk factors mirror existing real world knowledge or medical consensus.  To do this, we collected a comprehensive set of 137 medical research papers from PubMed (See Appendix A) which had the keywords “asthma trigger(s)” or “asthma risk factor(s)” in the title or abstract.  We analyzed these research articles to extract the categories of asthma triggers and risk factors from them (see Figure 14).  By comparing the categories of asthma risk factors identified from our study and the results from these  medical  articles,  we  found  our  methods  are  able  to identify almost all of the important triggers and risk factors contributing to asthma exacerbations.  This confirms the effi- cacy of our framework and methods.  There is, however, a significant difference:  most extracted triggers and factors in our  study  are  environment-related  factors,  while  current medical literature mainly focuses on biological and demo- graphic factors.  This may be because the effect of environ- mental factors cannot really be examined using survey-based or traditional data collection methods, hence researchers focus on fundamental biological and demographic factors; however, in  reality,  weather  and  air  quality  are  very  important  risk factors; or because of some specific limitations of our data:  although we made every attempt to include all relevant data sources,  it  is  still  extremely  difficult  to  obtain  personal biological data (due to privacy restrictions) and even harder to integrate them with other data sources.  Hence, such factors Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma are underrepresented in our proposed framework.  However, as an open framework, biological data can be imported and used  when  they  are  available  (We  are  collaborating  with asthma specialists and will add biological data in our future work). Interpretations of the Results Overall, our study has revealed several interesting insights related to asthma exacerbation. (1) The results confirm that asthma risk factors are complex and varied, including multiple biological, demographic, behavioral,  environmental,  social,  psychological  and infectious determinants (see Table 6 and Figure 13). (2) Asthma  triggers  and  factors  are  often  interconnected.  Based on the results of SPM, for example, we find that viral infections are associated with environment, beha- vioral and social factors (Table 6, No. 36–44); while air quality factors interact with weather factors, resulting in asthma exacerbation, as shown in Table 6 (No. 51–87).  Based on the results of RF, we find that a number of sequential patterns are critical in distinguishing asthma patients from non-asthma patients.  For example, in the United States, there are very specific sequential patterns of asthma triggers and risk factors in different regions (Figure 13, United States, No. 2–8, 10–11). (3) According  to  our  analysis,  environmental  factors, including weather and air quality, are the most important asthma risk factors.  In particular, almost 55% of asthma exacerbations are caused by environment-related factors.  In the United States, mist is one of the more important triggers  for  asthma  exacerbation  (Figure  13,  United States, sky condition BR = mist, i.e., tiny water droplets suspended in the atmosphere).  This has also been iden- tified in medical studies (Kashiwabara et al. 2003).  As a  population-level  intervention  strategy,  outdoor  acti- vities  should  be  restricted  in  such  conditions.    Addi- tionally, cold air is another significant trigger of asthma exacerbations  as  shown  in  Figure  13,  United  States, Region  2,  3,  5,  7,  8  and  9.    Very  high  or  very  low humidity may also trigger asthma exacerbations (Figure 13, United States, Region 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8).  The possible reasons are with low humidity, windy conditions and dry weather  may  spread  pollutants  quickly  which  may increase asthma exacerbations; with high humidity, moist air creates an ideal environment for dust mites to grow and multiply which may increase asthma exacerbations.  Our results show that a key air pollutant, that is, small- particulate (i.e., PM2.5 and PM10, found in haze, smoke, MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 333 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma with Random Forest P@K Logistic Regression (%) Generalized Additive Model (%) Table 9.  Comparison Results with Different Feature Importance Assessment Algorithms Feature Selection Compare ÷² (%) 45.0 53.3 58.3 70.0 66.6 78.6 81.3 86.7 K = 20 K = 30 K = 40 K = 50 K = 60 K = 70 K = 80 K = 90 P@K:  precision at k:  the proportion of the same feature in the top-k feature sets. ÷²:  measures the worth of a feature by computing the value of the  statistic with respect to the class. Logistic Regression:  Penalty:  L1 (L1:  pushing feature coefficients to 0 and creating a method for feature selection).  Feature relative importance assessment:  standardized coefficients.   Generalized Additive Models:  feature selection:  p-value (p < 0.05).  Feature relative importance assessment:  standardized coefficients. 55.0 56.7 60.0 66.0 73.3 74.2 80.0 87.7 55.0 63.3 75.0 82.0 Figure 14.  Research Articles on Asthma Triggers and Risk Factors in PubMed including dust, and pollen), affects asthma exacerbations (Figure 13, Region 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10).  As an intervention for asthmatic patients, such pollution information should be spatially and temporally analyzed, and communicated to community stakeholders. (3) The Hispanic population is disproportionately affected by asthma  (Figure  13,  Region  6  and  9)  and  researchers believe the reasons are yet-unidentified genetic variants (Hunninghake et al. 2006).  Our extracted frequent risk factors sequence f_{race = hispanics}, f_{cat_med_inc = low} (Table 6, No. 47) shows that this might be the result  of  the  collective  effects  of  genetic  factors  and socioeconomic  status  (e.g.,  there  may  be  low-income Hispanic families with limited healthcare benefits that have  barriers  to  healthcare  access).    Population-level interventions  should  be  provided  to  help  such  less privileged groups. (4) Exposure to indoor pollutants and allergens may also be important risk factors for asthma  exacerbation.  As is shown  in  Table  6  (No.  88),  asthma  patients  may  be exposed to mold through cotton toys. 334 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 (5) Another interesting finding is that behavior modification interventions  could  be  an  important  way  to  control asthma exacerbation.  For example, behavioral factors such  as  drinking,  smoking,  exercise,  and  adhering  to medications  (Table  6,  No.  3,  19,  20,  etc.)  are  all  im- portant in managing asthma exacerbations.  We believe, our study paves the way to understand these triggers and risk  factors  and  to  include  them  in  devising  effective asthma management plans. Conclusions and Future Work In  this  study,  we  focused  on  comprehensively  identifying asthma  triggers  and  risk  factors,  their relative  importance, their interconnecting  relationships,  and  the  relative  impor- tance of asthma triggers and risk factors. Our proposed framework is very promising for many reasons.  Our major research contributions for chronic disease manage- ment are, first, we developed a framework for comprehensive asthma trigger and risk factor analysis by leveraging widely available open data sources about asthma and adapting mul- tiple advanced machine learning techniques.  Our framework is able to confirm existing understanding as well as discover new medical knowledge regarding asthma triggers and risk factors by determining the sequential  patterns and relative importance of these risk factors.  Second, we demonstrated the use of novel data sources, such as social media, for de- riving characteristics, including demographics and behaviors, of  asthma  patients,  as  an  alternative  to  traditional  survey- based data collection methods.  Third, we developed a frame- work for integrating and repurposing highly heterogeneous data  from  multiple  sources  with  varied  spatial–temporal resolutions, which can be used as a complement to retrospec- tive cohort studies. Our proposed framework can economically identify asthma risk factors in a timely manner.  The results of this study can provide guidance for developing asthma management plans and population-level asthma interventions. The technical contribution of this study is also significant.  We propose a framework with four components along with systematic evaluations for each component.  We first propose a  new  two-stage  model  to  derive  characteristics  of  self- reported asthma patients from social media with image recog- nition  techniques  to  enhance  asthma  patients’  background information  extraction.    The  proposed  two-stage  model outperforms state-of-the-art methods.  We adapt and integrate the ray casting algorithm to combine and repurpose highly Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma heterogeneous data from multiple open sources with disparate spatial–temporal  resolutions.    We  use  sequential  pattern mining to determine the connections between asthma triggers and risk factors.  We modify random forest to uncover the relative importance of asthma triggers and risk factors.  These are typically challenging to understand using retrospective cohort studies, hence our framework and methods can be used as a complement to such studies. While the results are encouraging, the proposed framework is not without limitations. The first limitation stems from the use of social media data.  Although we find social media is a valuable source for ex- tracting characteristics of self-reported asthma patients, the datasets may be incomplete and have potential selection bias. To  address  the  incompleteness  problem  and  improve  data quality,  we  recommend  adding  data  from  self-reported patients across multiple social media sites.  To address the selection bias of social media, we propose using our frame- work  as  a  complement  to  survey-based  data  collection methods to obtain more representative samples of individuals from the asthma population. The  second  limitation  is  that  some  other  important  data sources  are  not  included  due  to  lack  of  availability.    For example, since asthma is related to genetic factors, hetero- geneous biological data sources (e.g., experimental results and genetic profiles) (Rharbi et al. 2012) may provide valuable information.  Since the proposed framework is open, such data can be imported when available and integrated with other data sources.  Additionally, we collected local weather and outdoor air quality data for our analyses.  However, the indoor environment of asthma patients may be different from the outdoor  environmental  conditions.    Wearable  sensors  that capture data about indoor environments, activity levels, as well as other behavior of individuals may enhance the risk factor analyses results using our proposed methods.  Addi- tionally, medication adherence related behavior, if available, may be incorporated into future studies. In future work, our framework can be extended in the fol- lowing ways:  First, by integrating advanced machine learning paradigms, the framework can use real-time or near-real-time sensor and the Internet-based datasets to follow trends and changes in asthma risk factors as they evolve.  Second, the framework may be generalized and extended to detect pat- terns,  trends,  and  risk  factors  for  other  chronic  conditions such as type 2 diabetes and obesity.  Third, the framework can be used as a complement to prospective cohort studies be- cause the conditions of self-reported asthma patients and other factors can be followed prospectively. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 335 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Acknowledgments We thank medical research personnel from the College of Medicine at the University of Arizona who generously shared their insights and  expertise  on  asthma  research  and  management,  greatly enhancing this work.  We thank the MISQ special issue editors and the  anonymous  reviewers  for  constructive  reviews  and  a  devel- opmental review process.  We also thank participants at the MIS Quarterly  Special  Issue  Workshop:    The  Role  of  Information Systems  and  Analytics  in  Chronic  Disease  Prevention  & Management (2018) for valuable feedback. This work was done when Wenli Zhang was a research assistant and doctoral student at the Department of MIS, Eller College of Man- agement, University of Arizona. References Abbar, S., Mejova, Y., and Weber, I.  2015.  “You Tweet What You Eat:    Studying  Food  Consumption  Through  Twitter,”  in Proceedings  of  the  33rd  Annual  ACM  Conference  on  Human Factors  in  Computing  Systems,  New  York:    ACM,  pp. 3197-3206. Akinbami,  L.  J.,  Moorman,  J.  E.,  and  Liu,  X.    2011.    “Asthma Prevalence,  Health  Care  Use,  and  Mortality:    United  States, 2005–2009,” National Health Statistics Reports (32), pp. 1-14. Almqvist,  C.,  Worm,  M.,  and  Leynaert,  B.    2008.    “Impact  of Gender on Asthma in Childhood and Adolescence:  A GA²LEN Review,” Allergy (63:1), pp. 47-57. Andrade,  E.  B.,  Kaltcheva,  V.,  and  Weitz,  B.    2002.    “Self- Disclosure on the Web:  The Impact of Privacy Policy, Reward, and  Company  Reputation,”  Advances  in  Consumer  Research (29:1), pp. 350-353. Andreu-Perez, J., Leff, D. R., Ip, H. M. D., and Yang, G.-Z.  2015. “From Wearable Sensors to Smart Implants—Toward Pervasive and  Personalized  Healthcare,”  IEEE  Transactions  on  Bio- Medical Engineering (62:12), pp. 2750-2762. Arif, A. A., Delclos, G. L., and Serra, C.  2009.  “Occupational Exposures and Asthma among Nursing Professionals,” Occupa- tional and Environmental Medicine (66:4), pp. 274-278. Barnes, P. J.  2008.  “The Cytokine Network in Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease,” The Journal of Clinical Inves- tigation (118:11), pp. 3546-3556. Barnett,  S. B. L.,  and Nurmagambetov,  T.  A.  2011.  “Costs of Asthma in the United States:  2002–2007,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (127:1), pp. 145-152. Bates,  D.  W.,  Saria,  S.,  Ohno-Machado,  L.,  Shah,  A.,  and Escobar, G.  2014.  “Big Data In Health Care:  Using Analytics to  Identify  and  Manage  High-Risk  and  High-Cost  Patients,” Health Affairs (33:7), pp. 1123-1131. Bird,  S.,  Klein,  E.,  and  Loper,  E.    2009.    Natural  Language Processing  with  Python:    Analyzing  Text  with  the  Natural Language Toolkit, Sebastopol, CA:  O’Reilly Media, Inc. Boyd, D. M., and Ellison, N. B.  2007.  “Social Network Sites:  Definition,  History,  and  Scholarship,”  Journal  of  Computer- Mediated Communication (13:1), pp. 210-230. 336 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 pp. 5-32. Burger,  J.  D.,  Henderson,  J.,  Kim,  G.,  and  Zarrella,  G.    2011. “Discriminating Gender on Twitter,” in Proceedings of the Con- ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Stroudsburg, PA:  Association for Computational Linguistics, pp. 1301-1309. CDC.  2013.  “Asthma  Facts—CDC’s  National  Asthma  Control Program Grantees,” Atlanta, GA:  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC.  2017a.  “CDC—Asthma—Most Recent Asthma State Data,” Atlanta, GA:  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention (https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/most_recent_data_states.htm; retrieved April 19, 2017). CDC.  2017b.  “Flu and People with Asthma|Seasonal Influenza (Flu),”  Atlanta,  GA:  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Chaudhuri,  R.,  Livingston,  E.,  McMahon,  A.  D.,  Thomson,  L., Borland, W., and Thomson, N. C.  2003.  “Cigarette Smoking Impairs  the  Therapeutic  Response  to  Oral  Corticosteroids  in Chronic Asthma,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (168:11), pp. 1308-1311. Chen, E., and Miller, G. E.  2007.  “Stress and Inflammation in Exacerbations of sthma,” Brain, Behavior, and Immunity (21:8), pp. 993-999. Chen, M., Mao, S., and Liu, Y.  2014.  “Big Data:  A Survey,” Mobile Networks and Applications (19:2), pp. 171-209. Chen, X., Wang, Y., Agichtein, E., and Wang, F.  2015.  “A Com- parative Study of Demographic Attribute Inference in Twitter,” in Proceedings of the 9th International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media, Palo Alto, CA:  AAAI, pp. 590-593. Cohen, J.  1960.  “A Coefficient of Agreement for Nominal Scales,” Educational and Psychological Measurement (20:1), pp. 37-46. Cortes,  C.,  and  Vapnik,  V.    1995.    “Support-Vector  Networks,” Bradski, G.  2000.  “The OpenCV Library,” Dr. Dobb’s Journal:  Software Tools for the Professional Programmer (25:11), pp. 120-123. Breiman, L.  2001.  “Random Forests,” Machine Learning (45:1), Machine Learning (20:3), pp. 273-297. Craven,  M.,  and  Kumlien,  J.    1999.    “Constructing  Biological Knowledge Bases by Extracting Information from Text Sources,” in Proceedings  of the International Conference  on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology, pp. 77-86. Derlaga, V. J., and Berg, J. H.  1987.  Self-Disclosure:  Theory, Research, and Therapy, Perspectives in Social Psychology (1st ed.), New York:  Springer. Dindia, K.  2001.  “Self-Disclosure Research:  Knowledge through Meta-Analysis,”  in  Interpersonal  Communication  Research:  Advances Through Meta-Analysis, M.  Allen, R.  W.  Preiss, B.  M.  Gayle, and N.  Burrell (eds.), Oxford, UK:  Taylor & Francis, pp. 169-185. EPA.  2014.  “AQI Air Quality Index:  A Guide to Air Quality and Your Health,” Research Triangle Park, NC:  U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Air  Quality  Planning  and Standards, Outreach and Information Division. Eurowinter Group.  1997.  “Cold Exposure and Winter Mortality from  Ischaemic  Heart  Disease,  Cerebrovascular  Disease, Respiratory Disease, and All Causes in Warm and Cold Regions of Europe,” The Lancet (349), pp. 1341-1346. Fang, Q., Sang, J., Xu, C., and Hossain, M. S.  2015.  “Relational User Attribute Inference in Social Media,” IEEE Transactions on Multimedia (17:7), pp. 1031-1044. Ferguson, C. J., Muñoz, M. E., Garza, A., and Galindo, M.  2014. “Concurrent and Prospective Analyses of Peer, Television and Social  Media  Influences  on  Body  Dissatisfaction,  Eating Disorder Symptoms and Life Satisfaction in Adolescent Girls,” Journal of Youth and Adolescence (43:1), pp. 1-14. Galant, S. P., Crawford, L. J. R., Morphew, T., Jones, C. A., and Bassin, S.  2004.  “Predictive Value of a Cross-Cultural Asthma Case-Detection  Tool  in  an  Elementary  School  Population,” Pediatrics (114:3), pp. e307-316. Gibbs,  J.  L.,  Ellison,  N.  B.,  and  Heino,  R.  D.    2006.    “Self- Presentation in Online Personals:  The Role of Anticipated Future Interaction, Self-Disclosure, and Perceived Success in Internet Dating,” Communication Research (33:2), pp. 152-177. Go,  A.,  Bhayani,  R.,  and Huang,  L.    2009.    “Twitter  Sentiment Classification Using Distant Supervision,” No. CS224N Project Report, Stanford, pp. 12-18. Han, J., Cheng, H., Xin, D., and Yan, X.  2007.  “Frequent Pattern Mining:  Current Status and Future Directions,” Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery (15:1), pp. 55-86. Han, J., Pei, J., and Kamber, M.  2011.  Data Mining:  Concepts and Techniques, Amsterdam:  Elsevier. Herman, E. J.  2011.  “Conceptual Framework of the Controlling Asthma in American Cities Project,” Journal of Urban Health (88:1), pp. 7-15. Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., and Ram, S.  2004.  “Design Science  in  Information  Systems  Research,”  MIS  Quarterly (28:1), pp. 75-105. Hong, C. Y., Ng, T. P., Wong, M. L., Koh, K. T. C., Goh, L. G., and Ling,  S.  L.    1994.    “Lifestyle  and  Behavioural  Risk  Factors Associated  with  Asthma  Morbidity  in  Adults,”  QJM:    An International Journal of Medicine (87:10), pp. 639-645. Huang, Y., Yu, L., Wang, X., and Cui, B.  2015.  “A Multi-Source Integration Framework for User Occupation Inference in Social Media Systems,” World Wide Web (18:5), pp. 1247-1267. Hunninghake,  G.  M.,  Weiss,  S.  T.,  and  Celedón,  J.  C.    2006. “Asthma in Hispanics,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (173:2), pp. 143-163. Jalali, L., Dao, M.-S., Jain, R., and Zettsu, K.  2015.  “Complex Asthma  Risk  Factor  Recognition  from  Heterogeneous  Data Streams,”  in  Proceedings  of  the  2015  IEEE  International Conference on Multimedia Expo Workshops, Turin, Italy, June 29–July 3, pp.  214-219. Jamison-Powell,  S.,  Linehan,  C.,  Daley,  L.,  Garbett,  A.,  and Lawson,  S.    2012.    “‘I  Can’t  Get  No  Sleep’:    Discussing #Insomnia  on  Twitter,”  in  Proceedings  of  the  SIGCHI Conference  on  Human  Factors  in  Computing  Systems,  New York:  ACM, pp. 1501-1510. Kane, G. C., Alavi, M., Labianca, G., and Borgatti, S. P.  2014. “What’s Different About Social Media Networks?  A Framework and Research Agenda,” MIS Quarterly (38:1), pp. 275-304. Kaplan, A. M., and Haenlein, M.  2010.  “Users of the World, Unite! The Challenges and Opportunities of Social Media,” Business Horizons (53:1), pp. 59-68. Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Kashiwabara,  K.,  Itonaga,  K.,  and  Moroi,  T.    2003.    “Airborne Water Droplets in Mist or Fog May Affect Nocturnal Attacks in Asthmatic Children,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (40:4), pp. 405-411. Kovats, R. S., and Hajat, S.  2008.  “Heat Stress and Public Health:  A Critical Review,” Annual Review of Public Health (29), pp. 41-55. Kozyrskyj, A. L., Kendall, G. E., Zubrick, S. R., Newnham, J. P., and Sly, P. D.  2009.  “Frequent Nocturnal Awakening in Early Life  Is  Associated  with  Nonatopic  Asthma  in  Children,”  The European Respiratory Journal (34:6), pp. 1288-1295.  Kurai, D., Saraya, T., Ishii, H., and Takizawa, H.  2013.  “Virus- Induced  Exacerbations  in  Asthma  and  COPD,”  Frontiers  in Microbiology (4:293). Landis, J. R., and Koch, G. G.  1977.  “An Application of Hier- archical Kappa-Type Statistics in the Assessment of Majority Agreement among Multiple Observers,” Biometrics (33:2), pp. 363-374. Laurini, R., and Thompson, D.  1992.  Fundamentals of Spatial Information Systems, Waltham, MA:  Academic Press. Lecun, Y., Bottou, L., Bengio, Y., and Haffner, P.  1998.  “Gradient- Based Learning Applied to Document Recognition,” Proceedings of the IEEE (86:11), pp. 2278-2324. Lee, C.-H., Chen, J. C.-Y., and Tseng, V. S.  2011.  “A Novel Data Mining Mechanism Considering Bio-Signal and Environmental Data  with  Applications  on  Asthma  Monitoring,”  Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine (101:1), pp. 44-61. Levi, G., and Hassner, T.  2015.  “Age and Gender Classification Using Convolutional Neural Networks,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Boston, pp. 34-42. Liu,  S.,  Yang,  J.,  Huang,  C.,  and  Yang,  M.  H.    2015.    “Multi- Objective  Convolutional  Learning  for  Face  Labeling,”  in Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 3451-3459. Liu, S., Zhu, M., Yu, D. J., Rasin, A., and Young, S. D.  2017. “Using Real-Time Social Media Technologies to Monitor Levels of Perceived Stress and Emotional State in College Students:  A Web-Based Questionnaire Study,” JMIR Mental Health (4:1). Lopez,  A.  D.,  Mathers,  C.  D.,  Ezzati,  M.,  Jamison,  D.  T.,  and Murray, C. J. (eds.).  2006.  Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors, Washington, DC:  World Bank.  Mabroukeh,  N.  R.,  and  Ezeife,  C.  I.    2010.    “A  Taxonomy  of Sequential Pattern Mining Algorithms,” ACM Computing Surveys (43:1), Article 3. Manyika,  J.,  Chui,  M.,  Brown,  B.,  Bughin,  J.,  Dobbs,  R., Roxburgh,  C.,  and  Byers,  A.    2011.    “Big  Data:    The  Next Frontier  for  Innovation,  Competition,  and  Productivity,” McKinsey Global Institute, New York. March, S. T., and Smith, G. F.  1995.  “Design and Natural Science Research on Information Technology,” Decision Support Systems (15:4), pp. 251-266. Menne, M. J., Durre, I., Vose, R. S., Gleason, B. E., and Houston, T. G.  2012.  “An Overview of the Global Historical Climatology Network-Daily Database,” Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology (29:7), pp. 897-910. Mislove,  A.,  Lehmann,  S.,  Ahn,  Y.-Y.,  Onnela,  J.-P.,  and Rosenquist,  N.    2011.    “Understanding  the  Demographics  of MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 337 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Twitter  Users,”  in  Proceedings  of  the  5th  International  AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, pp.  554-557. Mohammad, S. M., Kiritchenko, S., and Zhu, X.  2013.  “NRC- Canada:  Building the State-of-the-Art in Sentiment Analysis of Tweets,” arXiv:1308.6242 (http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6242). Myslín,  M.,  Zhu,  S.-H.,  Chapman,  W.,  and  Conway,  M.    2013. “Using Twitter to Examine Smoking Behavior and Perceptions of Emerging Tobacco  Products,”  Journal  of Medical  Internet Research (15:8). Nesi, J., and Prinstein, M. J.  2015.  “Using Social Media for Social Comparison  and  Feedback-Seeking:    Gender  and  Popularity Moderate Associations with Depressive Symptoms,” Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology (43:8), pp. 1427-1438. Nicholson, K. G., Kent, J., and Ireland, D. C.  1993.  “Respiratory Viruses  and  Exacerbations  of  Asthma  in  Adults,”  BMJ (307:6910), pp. 982-986.  Nunamaker, J. F., Chen, M., and Purdin, T. D. M.  1990.  “Systems Development  in  Information  Systems  Research,”  Journal  of Management Information Systems (7:3), pp. 89-106. O’Byrne,  P.  M.,  Ryan,  G.,  Morris,  M.,  McCormack,  D.,  Jones, N. L., Morse, J. L. C., and Hargreave, F. E.  1982.  “Asthma Induced by Cold Air and its Relation to Nonspecific Bronchial Responsiveness  to  Methacholine,”  American  Review  of Respiratory Disease (125:3), pp. 281-285. Pei, J., Han, J., Mortazavi-asl, B., Pinto, H., Chen, Q., Dayal, U., and Hsu, M.  2001.  “PrefixSpan:  Mining Sequential Patterns Efficiently by Prefix-Projected Pattern Growth,” in Proceedings of  the  17th  Annual  International  Conference  on  Data  Engi- neering, IEEE, pp. 215-224. Ram,  S.,  Zhang,  W.,  Williams,  M.,  and  Pengetnze,  Y.    2015. “Predicting Asthma-Related Emergency Department Visits Using Big Data,” IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics (19:4), pp. 1216-1223. Ramachandran, A., Snehalatha, C., Ram, J., Selvam, S., Simon, M., Nanditha,  A.,  Shetty,  A.S.,  Godsland,  I.    F.,  Chaturvedi,  N., Majeed,  A.,  Oliver,  N.    Toumazou,  C.,  Alberti,  K.    G.,  and Johnston, D.  G.  2013.  “Effectiveness of Mobile Phone Mes- saging  in  Prevention  of  Type  2  Diabetes  by  Lifestyle Modification in Men in India:  A Prospective, Parallel-Group, Randomized  Controlled  Trial,”  The  Lancet  Diabetes  & Endocrinology (1:3), pp. 191-198.  Rao,  D.,  Yarowsky,  D.,  Shreevats,  A.,  and  Gupta,  M.    2010. “Classifying Latent User Attributes in Twitter,” in Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Search and Mining User- Generated Contents, New York:  ACM, pp. 37-44. Rharbi, A., Amine, K., Bakkoury, Z., Mikou, A., Kettani, A., and Betari, A. K.  “Approaches to Access Biological Data Sources,” Chapter  6  in  Lipoproteins—Role  in  Health  and  Diseases, S. Frank and G.  Kostner (eds.) (https://epdf.pub/lipoproteins- role-in-health-and-diseases.html). Rothe, R., Timofte, R., and van Gool, L.  2018.  “Deep Expectation of Real and Apparent Age from a Single Image Without Facial Landmarks,” International Journal of Computer Vision (126), pp. 144-157. Rundell, K. W., Im, J., Mayers, L. B., Wilber, R. L., Szmedra, L., and  Schmitz,  H.  R.    2001.    “Self-Reported  Symptoms  and Exercise-Induced Asthma in the Elite Athlete,” Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise (33:2), pp. 208-213. 338 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Sadat, Y. K., Nikaein, T., and Karimipour, F.  2015.  “Fuzzy Spatial Association Rule Mining to Analyze the Effect of Environmental Variables on the Risk of Allergic Asthma Prevalence,” Geodesy and Cartography (41:2), pp. 101-112. Salam, M. T., Islam, T., and Gilliland, F. D.  2008.  “Recent Evi- dence for Adverse Effects of Residential Proximity to Traffic Sources on Asthma,” Current Opinion in Pulmonary Medicine (14:1), pp. 3-8. Schau, H., and Gilly, M. C.  2003.  “We Are What We Post?  Self- Presentation  in  Personal  Web  Space,”  Journal  of  Consumer Research (30:3), pp. 385-404. Shimrat, M.  1962.  “Algorithm 112:  Position of Point Relative to Polygon,” Communications of the ACM (5:8), p. 434. Simon, H. A.  1996.  The Sciences of the Artificial, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Ruths, D., and Pfeffer, J.  2014.  “Social Media for Large Studies of Behavior,” Science (346:6213), pp. 1063-1064. Sloan, L., Morgan, J., Burnap, P., and Williams, M.  2015.  “Who Tweets?    Deriving  the  Demographic  Characteristics  of  Age, Occupation  and  Social  Class  from  Twitter  User  Meta-Data,” PLoS ONE (10:3), p. e0115545. Smith,  D.  K.,  Seales,  S.,  and  Budzik,  C.    2017.    “Respiratory Syncytial  Virus  Bronchiolitis  in  Children,”  American  Family Physician (95:2), pp. 94-99. Strano, M. M.  2008.  “User Descriptions and Interpretations of Self- Presentation  through  Facebook  Profile  Images,”  Cyber- psychology:  Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace (2:2), Article 5. Strobl, C., Boulesteix, A.-L., Zeileis, A., and Hothorn, T.  2007. “Bias  in  Random  Forest  Variable  Importance  Measures:  Illustrations,  Sources  and  a  Solution,”  BMC  Bioinformatics (8:25). Szczeklik, A., Ni¿ankowska, E., and Duplaga, M.  2000.  “Natural History  of  Aspirin-Induced  Asthma.    AIANE  Investigators.  European  Network  on  Aspirin-Induced  Asthma,”  European Respiratory Journal (16:3), pp. 432-436. Tang,  M.,  Agrawal,  P.,  and  Jain,  R.    2015.    “Habits  Vs. Environment:    What  Really  Causes  Asthma?,”  Article  30  in Proceedings of the ACM Web Science Conference, New York:  ACM. Walker, S. J.  2014.  “Big Data:  A Revolution That Will Transform How  We  Live,  Work,  and  Think,”  International  Journal  of Advertising (33:1), pp. 181-183. WHO.    2017.    “WHO  |  Asthma,”  World  Health  Organization,  Geneva,  Switzerland  (http://www.who.int/topics/asthma/en/; retrieved July 5, 2017). Wong,  E.  C.,  Palaniappan,  L.  P.,  and  Lauderdale,  D.  S.    2010. “Using Name Lists to Infer Asian Racial/Ethnic Subgroups in the Healthcare Setting,” Medical Care (48:6), pp. 540-546. Wright, R. J., Rodriguez, M., and Cohen, S.  1998.  “Review of Psychosocial Stress and Asthma:  An Integrated Biopsychosocial Approach,” Thorax (53:12), pp. 1066-1074. Wu, X., Zhu, X., Wu, G. Q., and Ding, W.  2014.  “Data Mining with  Big  Data,”  IEEE  Transactions  on  Knowledge  and  Data Engineering (26:1), pp. 97-107. Xiang, L., Sang, J., and Xu, C.  2017.  “Demographic Attribute Inference  from  Social  Multimedia  Behaviors:    A  Cross-OSN Approach,”  in  Multimedia  Modeling,  L.    Amsaleg,  G.    Guo- mundsson,  C.    Gurrin,  B.    Jónsson,  and  S.    Satoh,  Cham, Switzerland:  Springer Nature, pp. 515-526. Zacharasiewicz, A.  2016.  “Maternal Smoking in Pregnancy and its Influence on Childhood Asthma,” ERJ Open Research (2:3). Zhang, W., and Ram, S.  2015.  “A Comprehensive Methodology for  Extracting  Signal  from  Social  Media  Text  Using  Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning,” paper presented at the 25th Workshop on Information Technologies and Systems, Dallas, TX, December 12. Zhang, W., and Ram, S.  2017.  “Domain Adaptation for Signal Extraction from Large Social Media Datasets,” paper presented at  the  Conference  on  Information  Systems  and  Technology, Houston, TX. About the Authors  Wenli Zhang is an assistant professor at the Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business at Iowa State University.  She received  her Ph.D.  from  the  University  of  Arizona  in  2018.    Her  research interests revolve around the areas of data science and information system  design,  especially  in  developing  techniques  based  on machine learning, natural language processing, network analysis, and distributed computing for solving real-world problems within the context of healthcare and other business concerns.  Her work Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma appears  in  journals  and  conference  proceedings  including  IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics and ACM Digital Health.  She received the Best Dissertation Proposal Award by the Workshop  on  Information  Technologies  and  Systems  and  the Meritorious Mention by the Association for Information Systems SIG Health. Sudha Ram is Anheuser-Busch Endowed Professor of MIS, and Entrepreneurship & Innovation in the Eller College of Management at the University of Arizona.  She has a joint faculty appointment as a professor of Computer Science.  She is the director of INSITE:  Center for Business Intelligence and Analytics (www.insiteua.org) at  the  University  of  Arizona.    Sudha  received  a  Ph.D.  from  the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1985.  Her research is in the areas of network science, prediction modeling, machine learning, and big data analytics.  Her work uses different methods such as machine learning,  statistical  approaches,  ontologies, and conceptual modeling.  She has published articles in such journals as Communications  of  the  ACM,  IEEE  Intelligent  Systems,  IEEE Transactions  on  Knowledge  and  Data  Engineering,  Information Systems, Information Systems Research, Management Science, and MIS Quarterly.  She is an editor for Journal of Business Analytics and Fellow of the Association for Information Systems.  She was a speaker for a TEDx Talk in December 2013 on “Creating a Smarter World with Big Data.” MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 339 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Appendix A Existing Studies on Asthma Risk Factors and Triggers Methods Cat. References Risk Factors/ Triggers Case-control study (13.87%) Clinical trial study (1.46%) Cohort study (59.12%) Ardura-Garcia et al. 2015; Bener et al. 2007; Lødrup Carlsen et al. 2004; Malling et al. 2010; Ownby et al. 2015; Wang et al. 2001; Whu et al. 2007; Xu et al. 2016 Lakhanpaul et al. 2017 Armentia et al. 2001; Boneberger et al. 2010 Falliers 1973; Fredrickson et al. 2004; Mai et al. 2012 Sutherland et al. 2004 Webley and Aldridge 2015 Kamran et al. 2015 Mo et al. 2003 Sarafino et al. 2001 Krieger et al. 2005 Valizadeh et al. 2014 Agache and Ciobanu 2010; Arnedo et al. 2007; DeBaun et al. 2014; Del-Rio- Navarro et al. 2006; Dumanovsky and Matte 2007; Ergöz et al. 2014; Gonzales et al. 2007; Greenblatt et al. 2017; Klinnert et al. 2002; Kozyrskyj et al. 2003; Kühni and Sennhauser 1995; Lara et al. 2006; Loisel et al. 2011; Rolfsjord et al. 2015; Seo et al. 2015; Sims et al. 1999; Xu et al. 2016;  Braman 2017; Luskin et al. 2014; Sarafino and Goldfedder 1995 Andrusaityte et al. 2016; Jackson et al. 2017; Quiralte et al. 2005; Sotir et al. 2003; Uthaisangsook 2010 Banda et al. 2013; Cabana et al. 2004; Dong et al. 2018; Göksel et al. 2009; Martin et al. 2006; Martin et al. 2013; O’Leary et al. 2012; Shendell et al. 2007; Weiss et al. 2001 Acosta et al. 2008; Björkstén et al. 2011; Beuther and Sutherland 2007; Debley et al. 2012; Devereux and Seaton 2005 El-Zein et al. 2017; Gudelj et al. 2012; Hollams et al. 2017; Hung et al. 2010; Kelley et al. 2005; Kozyrskyj et al. 2007; Kozyrskyj et al. 2009; Li et al. 2005; Maher et al. 2004; Ross et al. 2009; Zedan et al. 2012 Alhekail et al. 2017; Gruber et al. 2016; Peterson et al. 2012 Akpinar-Elci et al. 2002; Delclos et al. 2007; Horner 2008; Hovland et al. 2015; Kozyrskyj et al. 2008; Wendt et al. 2012 Kakumanu et al. 2017; Ritz et al. 2014; Ritz, Kullowatz, Bobb et al. 2008; Ritz et al. 2016; Takaro et al. 2004; Turyk et al. 2013; Vazquez et al. 2017 Lukkarinen et al. 2017; Pereira et al. 2007 Sarafino and Dillon 1998 Peroni et al. 2009 Agrawal et al. 2013 Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors 1 2 3 5 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3, 4 2, 3, 5 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 1, 2 1,  2,  3 340 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma 2, 3 2, 3, 4 2, 4 2, 4, 5 2, 5 3, 4 1 2 4 1, 2 3, 5 1 2 1 2 3 4 1, 2 2, 3, 5 3, 5 Cross- sectional study (5.11%) Experiment (2.19%) Literature review (14.60%) Janssens and Harver 2015; Price et al. 2014; Ritz et al. 2006; Washington et al. 2012 Reddy et al. 2017; Ritz, Kullowatz, Kanniess, et al. 2008 Harris et al. 2017 Chipps et al. 2018 Janssens et al. 2017 Warman et al. 2006 Higgins et al. 2005; Stridsman et al. 2017 García-Marcos et al. 2005; Rojas Molina et al. 2001 Mohammad et al. 2017 Bener et al. 1996 Rank et al. 2010 Polley et al. 2017; Worgall 2017 Redlich 2010 Dautel et al. 1999 Durham et al. 2011; Holt and Sly 2011; Howell 2008; Subbarao et al. 2009 Dietert 2011; Horner et al. 2002 Crocker et al. 2011; Gautier and Charpin 2017 Farber et al. 1998; Forno et al. 2014; Peroni et al. 2002; Reisman et al. 2006 Covar et al. 2005 Cullinan 2005; Gergen and Togias 2015 Janssens and Ritz 2013 Guibas et al. 2015; Toskala and Kennedy 2015 Vernon et al. 2012 McCarty and Ferguson 2014 Liu et al. 2016 Triggers Risk factors Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Risk factors Triggers Triggers Risk factors 2 Modeling analysis (2.19%) Cat. = Category:  1 = Biological and demographic factors; 2 = Environmental factors; 3 = Behavioral factors; 4 = Social and psychological factors; 5 = Inflammatory and infectious factors. 84.7% of current studies focused on one type of asthma triggers or risk factors, 9.5% analyzed two types and only 5.8% of them studied more than two types of asthma triggers or risk factors. Brown et al. 2014; Myatt et al. 2008 Triggers PubMed Keywords:  “asthma trigger(s)” or “asthma risk factor(s)” (accessed April 2018). References for Appendix A Acosta, L. M., Acevedo-García, D., Perzanowski, M. S., Mellins, R., Rosenfeld, L., Cortés, D., Gelman, A., Fagan, J. K., Bracero, L. A., Correa, J. C., Reardon, A. M., and Chew, G. L.  2008.  “The New York City Puerto Rican Asthma Project:  Study Design, Methods, and Baseline Results,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (45:1), pp. 51-57. Agache, I., and Ciobanu, C.  2010.  “Risk Factors and Asthma Phenotypes in Children and Adults with Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis,” The Physician and Sportsmedicine (38:4), pp. 81-86. Agrawal, S., Pearce, N., and Ebrahim, S.  2013.  “Prevalence and Risk Factors for Self-Reported Asthma in an Adult Indian Population:  A Cross-Sectional Survey,” The International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease:  The Official Journal of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (17:2), pp. 275-282.  Akpinar-Elci, M., Cimrin, A. H., and Elci, O. C.  2002.  “Prevalence and Risk Factors of Occupational Asthma among Hairdressers in Turkey,” Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine (44:6), pp. 585-590. Alhekail, G. A., Althubaiti, A., and AlQueflie, S.  2017.  “The Association between Body Mass Index and Frequency of Emergency Department Visits and Hospitalization for Asthma Exacerbation in a Pediatric Population,” Annals of Saudi Medicine (37:6), pp. 415-419.  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 341 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Andrusaityte, S., Grazuleviciene, R., Kudzyte, J., Bernotiene, A., Dedele, A., and Nieuwenhuijsen, M. J.  2016.  “Associations between Neighbourhood Greenness and Asthma in Preschool Children in Kaunas, Lithuania:  A Case-Control Study,” BMJ Open (6:4), p. e010341.  Ardura-Garcia, C., Vaca, M., Oviedo, G., Sandoval, C., Workman, L., Schuyler, A. J., Perzanowski, M. S., Platts-Mills, T. A. E., and Cooper, P. J.  2015.  “Risk Factors for Acute Asthma in Tropical America:  A Case-Control Study in the City of Esmeraldas, Ecuador,” Pediatric Allergy and Immunology:  Official Publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (26:5), pp. 423-430.  Armentia, A., Bañuelos, C., Arranz, M. L., Del Villar, V., Martín-Santos, J. M., Gil, F. J., Vega, J. M., Callejo, A., and Paredes, C.  2001. “Early Introduction of Cereals into Children’s Diets as a Risk-Factor for Grass Pollen Asthma,” Clinical and Experimental Allergy:  Journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (31:8), pp. 1250-1255. Arnedo, A., Bellido, J. B., Pac, M. R., Artero, A., Campos, J.-B., Museros, L., Puig-Barberà, J., Tosca, R., and Tornador, E.  2007.  “Incidence of Asthma and Risk Factors in a Cohort of Schoolchildren Aged from 6-7 Years Old to 14-15 Years Old in Castellón (Spain) Following the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC),” Medicina Clinica (129:5), pp. 165-170. Banda, E., Persky, V., Chisum, G., Damitz, M., Williams, R., and Turyk, M.  2013.  “Exposure to Home and School Environmental Triggers and Asthma Morbidity in Chicago Inner-City Children,” Pediatric Allergy and Immunology:  Official Publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (24:8), pp. 734-741.  Bener, A., Abdulrazzaq, Y. M., Al-Mutawwa, J., and Debuse, P.  1996.  “Genetic and Environmental Factors Associated with Asthma,” Human Biology (68:3), pp. 405-414. Bener, A., Ehlayel, M., and Sabbah, A.  2007.  “The Pattern and Genetics of Pediatric Extrinsic Asthma Risk Factors in Polluted Environment,” European Annals of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (39:2), pp. 58-63. Beuther, D. A., and Sutherland, E. R.  2007.  “Overweight, Obesity, and Incident Asthma:  A Meta-Analysis of Prospective Epidemiologic Studies,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (175:7), pp. 661-666.  Björkstén, B., Aït-Khaled, N., Innes Asher, M., Clayton, T. O., Robertson, C., and ISAAC Phase Three Study Group.  2011.  “Global Analysis of Breast Feeding and Risk of Symptoms of Asthma, Rhinoconjunctivitis and Eczema in 6-7 Year Old Children:  ISAAC Phase Three,” Allergologia Et Immunopathologia (39:6), pp. 318-325.  Boneberger, A., Radon, K., Baer, J., Kausel, L., Kabesch, M., Haider, D., Schierl, R., von Kries, R., and Calvo, M.  2010.  “Asthma in Changing Environments--Chances and Challenges of International Research Collaborations between South America and Europe—Study Protocol and Description of the Data Acquisition of a Case-Control-Study,” BMC Pulmonary Medicine (10), p. 43.  Braman, S. S.  2017.  “Asthma in the Elderly,” Clinics in Geriatric Medicine (33:4), pp. 523-537.  Brown, K. W., Minegishi, T., Allen, J. G., McCarthy, J. F., Spengler, J. D., and MacIntosh, D. L.  2014.  “Reducing Patients’ Exposures to Asthma and Allergy Triggers in Their Homes:  An Evaluation of Effectiveness of Grades of Forced Air Ventilation Filters,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (51:6), pp. 585-594.  Cabana, M. D., Slish, K. K., Lewis, T. C., Brown, R. W., Nan, B., Lin, X., and Clark, N. M.  2004.  “Parental Management of Asthma Triggers within a Child’s Environment,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (114:2), pp. 352-357.  Chipps, B. E., Haselkorn, T., Rosén, K., Mink, D. R., Trzaskoma, B. L., and Luskin, A. T.  2018.  “Asthma Exacerbations and Triggers in Children in TENOR:  Impact on Quality of Life,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology:  In Practice (6:1), pp. 169-176.e2.  Collaborating Group ISRDCE.  1997.  “Frequency of Risk Factors in Bronchial Asthma in Various Regions of Italy,” Epidemiologia E Prevenzione (21:4), pp. 243-251. (25:1), pp. 169-190.  Covar, R. A., Macomber, B. A., and Szefler, S. J.  2005.  “Medications as Asthma Triggers,” Immunology and Allergy Clinics of North America Crocker, D. D., Kinyota, S., Dumitru, G. G., Ligon, C. B., Herman, E. J., Ferdinands, J. M., Hopkins, D. P., Lawrence, B. M., Sipe, T. A., and Task Force on Community Preventive Services.  2011.  “Effectiveness of Home-Based, Multi-Trigger, Multicomponent Interventions with an Environmental Focus for Reducing Asthma Morbidity:  A Community Guide Systematic Review,” American Journal of Preventive Medicine (41:2 Suppl. 1), pp. S5-32. Cullinan, P.  2005.  “Occupational Asthma:  Risk Factors, Diagnosis and Preventive Measures,” Expert Review of Clinical Immunology (1:1), pp. 123-132.  Dautel, P. J., Whitehead, L., Tortolero, S., Abramson, S., and Sockrider, M. M.  1999.  “Asthma Triggers in the Elementary School Environ- ment:  A Pilot Study,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (36:8), pp. 691-702. DeBaun, M. R., Rodeghier, M., Cohen, R., Kirkham, F. J., Rosen, C. L., Roberts, I., Cooper, B., Stocks, J., Wilkey, O., Inusa, B., Warner, J. O., and Strunk, R. C.  2014.  “Factors Predicting Future ACS Episodes in Children with Sickle Cell Anemia,” American Journal of Hematology (89:11), pp. E212-217.  Debley, J., Stanojevic, S., Filbrun, A. G., and Subbarao, P.  2012.  “Bronchodilator Responsiveness in Wheezy Infants and Toddlers Is Not Associated with Asthma Risk Factors,” Pediatric Pulmonology (47:5), pp. 421-428.  Delclos, G. L., Gimeno, D., Arif, A. A., Burau, K. D., Carson, A., Lusk, C., Stock, T., Symanski, E., Whitehead, L. W., Zock, J.-P., Benavides, F. G., and Antó, J. M.  2007.  “Occupational Risk Factors and Asthma among Health Care Professionals,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (175:7), pp. 667-675.  Del-Rio-Navarro, B., Berber, A., Blandón-Vijil, V., Ramírez-Aguilar, M., Romieu, I., Ramírez-Chanona, N., Heras-Acevedo, S., Serrano- Sierra, A., Barraza-Villareal, A., Baeza-Bacab, M., and Sienra-Monge, J. J. L.  2006.  “Identification of Asthma Risk Factors in Mexico City in an International Study of Asthma and Allergy in Childhood Survey,” Allergy and Asthma Proceedings (27:4), pp. 325-333. 342 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Devereux, G., and Seaton, A.  2005.  “Diet as a Risk Factor for Atopy and Asthma,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (115:6), Dietert, R. R.  2011.  “Maternal and Childhood Asthma:  Risk Factors, Interactions, and Ramifications,” Reproductive Toxicology (32:2), pp. pp. 1109-1118. 198-204.  Dong, Z., Nath, A., Guo, J., Bhaumik, U., Chin, M. Y., Dong, S., Marshall, E., Murphy, J. S., Sandel, M. T., Sommer, S. J., Ursprung, W. W. S., Woods, E. R., Reid, M., and Adamkiewicz, G.  2018.  “Evaluation of the Environmental Scoring System in Multiple Child Asthma Intervention Programs in Boston, Massachusetts,” American Journal of Public Health (108:1), pp. 103-111.  Dumanovsky, T., and Matte, T. D.  2007.  “Variation in Adult Asthma Prevalence in Hispanic Subpopulations in New York City,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (44:4), pp. 297-303.  Durham, A. L., Wiegman, C., and Adcock, I. M.  2011.  “Epigenetics of Asthma,” Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta (1810:11), pp. 1103-1109.  El-Zein, M., Conus, F., Benedetti, A., Menzies, D., Parent, M.-E., and Rousseau, M.-C.  2017.  “Association Between Bacillus Calmette-Guérin Vaccination and Childhood Asthma in the Quebec Birth Cohort on Immunity and Health,” American Journal of Epidemiology (186:3), pp. 344-355.  Ergöz, N., Seymen, F., Gencay, K., Tamay, Z., Deeley, K., Vinski, S., and Vieira, A. R.  2014.  “Genetic Variation in Ameloblastin Is Asso- ciated with Caries in Asthmatic Children,” European Archives of Paediatric Dentistry:  Official Journal of the European Academy of Paediatric Dentistry (15:3), pp. 211-216.  Falliers, C. J.  1973.  “Aspirin and Subtypes of Asthma:  Risk Factor Analysis,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (52:3), pp. 141-147. Farber, H. J., Johnson, C., and Beckerman, R. C.  1998.  “Young Inner-City Children Visiting the Emergency Room (ER) for Asthma:  Risk Factors and Chronic Care Behaviors,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (35:7), pp. 547-552. Forno, E., Young, O. M., Kumar, R., Simhan, H., and Celedón, J. C.  2014.  “Maternal Obesity in Pregnancy, Gestational Weight Gain, and Risk of Childhood Asthma,” Pediatrics (134:2), pp. e535-546.  Fredrickson, D. D., Molgaard, C. A., Dismuke, S. E., Schukman, J. S., and Walling, A.  2004.  “Understanding Frequent Emergency Room Use by Medicaid-Insured Children with Asthma:  A Combined Quantitative and Qualitative Study,” The Journal of the American Board of Family Practice (17:2), pp. 96-100. García-Marcos, L., Castro-Rodríguez, J. A., Suarez-Varela, M. M., Garrido, J. B., Hernandez, G. G., Gimeno, A. M., González, A. L., Ruiz, T. R., and Torres, A. M.  2005.  “A Different Pattern of Risk Factors for Atopic and Non-Atopic Wheezing in 9-12-Year-Old Children,” Pediatric Allergy and Immunology:  Official Publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (16:6), pp. 471-477.  Gautier, C., and Charpin, D.  2017.  “Environmental Triggers and Avoidance in the Management of Asthma,” Journal of Asthma and Allergy (10), pp. 47-56.  Gergen, P. J., and Togias, A.  2015.  “Inner City Asthma,” Immunology and Allergy Clinics of North America (35:1), pp. 101-114.  Göksel, O., Celik, G. E., Erkekol, F. O., Güllü, E., Mungan, D., and Misirligil, Z.  2009.  “Triggers in Adult Asthma:  Are Patients Aware of Triggers and Doing Right?,” Allergologia Et Immunopathologia (37:3), pp. 122-128.  Gonzales, M., Malcoe, L. H., Myers, O. B., and Espinoza, J.  2007.  “Risk Factors for Asthma and Cough among Hispanic Children in the Southwestern United States of America, 2003-2004,” Revista Panamericana De Salud Publica = Pan American Journal of Public Health (21:5), pp. 274-281. Greenblatt, R., Mansour, O., Zhao, E., Ross, M., and Himes, B. E.  2017.  “Gender-Specific Determinants of Asthma among U.S. Adults,” Asthma Research and Practice (3), p. 2.  Gruber, K. J., McKee-Huger, B., Richard, A., Byerly, B., Raczkowski, J. L., and Wall, T. C.  2016.  “Removing Asthma Triggers and Improving Children’s Health:  The Asthma Partnership Demonstration Project,” Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology:  Official Publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology (116:5), pp. 408-414.  Gudelj, I., Mrkiæ Kobal, I., Munivrana Škvorc, H., Miše, K., Vrbica, Z., Plavec, D., and Tudoriæ, N.  2012.  “Intraregional Differences in Asthma Prevalence and Risk Factors for Asthma among Adolescents in Split-Dalmatia County, Croatia,” Medical Science Monitor:  International Medical Journal of Experimental and Clinical Research (18:4), pp. PH43-50. Guibas, G. V., Megremis, S., West, P., and Papadopoulos, N. G.  2015.  “Contributing Factors to the Development of Childhood Asthma:  Working toward Risk Minimization,” Expert Review of Clinical Immunology (11:6), pp. 721-735.  Harris, D. A., Mainardi, A., Iyamu, O., Rosenthal, M. S., Bruce, R. D., Pisani, M. A., and Redlich, C. A.  2017.  “Improving the Asthma Disparity Gap with Legal Advocacy?  A Qualitative Study of Patient-Identified Challenges to Improve Social and Environmental Factors That Contribute to Poorly Controlled Asthma,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma, pp. 1-9. Higgins,  P.  S.,  Wakefield,  D.,  and  Cloutier,  M.  M.    2005.    “Risk  Factors  for  Asthma  and  Asthma  Severity  in  Nonurban  Children  in Connecticut,” Chest (128:6), pp. 3846-3853.  Hollams, E. M., Teo, S. M., Kusel, M., Holt, B. J., Holt, K. E., Inouye, M., De Klerk, N. H., Zhang, G., Sly, P. D., Hart, P. H., and Holt, P. G.  2017.  “Vitamin D over the First Decade and Susceptibility to Childhood Allergy and Asthma,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (139:2), pp. 472-481.e9.  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 343 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Holt, P. G., and Sly, P. D.  2011.  “Interaction between Adaptive and Innate Immune Pathways in the Pathogenesis of Atopic Asthma:  Operation of a Lung/Bone Marrow Axis,” Chest (139:5), pp. 1165-1171.  Horner, S. D.  2008.  “Childhood Asthma in a Rural Environment:  Implications for Clinical Nurse Specialist Practice,” Clinical Nurse Horner, S. D., Surratt, D., and Smith, S. B.  2002.  “The Impact of Asthma Risk Factors on Home Management of Childhood Asthma,” Journal Specialist (22:4), pp. 192-198; quiz 199-200.  of Pediatric Nursing (17:3), pp. 211-221. Hovland, V., Riiser, A., Mowinckel, P., Carlsen, K.-H., and Lødrup Carlsen, K. C.  2015.  “Early Risk Factors for Pubertal Asthma,” Clinical and Experimental Allergy:  Journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (45:1), pp. 164-176.  Howell, G.  2008.  “Nonadherence to Medical Therapy in Asthma:  Risk Factors, Barriers, and Strategies for Improving,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (45:9), pp. 723-729.  Hung, Y.-L., Hsieh, W.-S., Chou, H.-C., Yang, Y.-H., Chen, C.-Y., and Tsao, P.-N.  2010.  “Antenatal Steroid Treatment Reduces Childhood Asthma Risk in Very Low Birth Weight Infants without Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia,” Journal of Perinatal Medicine (38:1), pp. 95-102. Jackson, D. J., Gern, J. E., and Lemanske, R. F.  2017.  “Lessons Learned from Birth Cohort Studies Conducted in Diverse Environments,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (139:2), pp. 379-386.  Janssens, T., Caris, E., Van Diest, I., and Van den Bergh, O.  2017.  “Learning to Detect Triggers of Airway Symptoms:  The Role of Illness Beliefs, Conceptual Categories and Actual Experience with Allergic Symptoms,” Frontiers in Psychology (8), p. 926.  Janssens, T., and Harver, A.  2015.  “Effects of Symptom Perception Interventions on Trigger Identification and Quality of Life in Children with Asthma,” Pulmonary Medicine.  Janssens, T., and Ritz, T.  2013.  “Perceived Triggers of Asthma:  Key to Symptom Perception and Management,” Clinical and Experimental Allergy:  Journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (43:9), pp. 1000-1008.  Kakumanu, S., Antos, N., Szefler, S. J., and Lemanske, R. F.  2017.  “Building School Health Partnerships to Improve Pediatric Asthma Care:  The School-Based Asthma Management Program,” Current Opinion in Allergy and Clinical Immunology (17:2), pp. 160-166.  Kamran, A., Hanif, S., and Murtaza, G.  2015.  “Risk Factors of Childhood Asthma in Children Attending Lyari General Hospital,” JPMA: The Journal of the Pakistan Medical Association (65:6), pp. 647-650. Kelley, C. F., Mannino, D. M., Homa, D. M., Savage-Brown, A., and Holguin, F.  2005.  “Asthma Phenotypes, Risk Factors, and Measures of Severity in a National Sample of US Children,” Pediatrics (115:3), pp. 726-731.  Klinnert, M. D., Price, M. R., Liu, A. H., and Robinson, J. L.  2002.  “Unraveling the Ecology of Risks for Early Childhood Asthma among Ethnically Diverse Families in the Southwest,” American Journal of Public Health (92:5), pp. 792-798. Kozyrskyj, A. L., Ernst, P., and Becker, A. B.  2007.  “Increased Risk of Childhood Asthma from Antibiotic Use in Early Life,” Chest (131:6), pp. 1753-1759.  Kozyrskyj, A. L., Kendall, G. E., Zubrick, S. R., Newnham, J. P., and Sly, P. D.  2009.  “Frequent Nocturnal Awakening in Early Life Is Associated with Nonatopic Asthma in Children,” The European Respiratory Journal (34:6), pp. 1288-1295.  Kozyrskyj, A. L., Mai, X.-M., McGrath, P., Hayglass, K. T., Becker, A. B., and Macneil, B.  2008.  “Continued Exposure to Maternal Distress in Early Life Is Associated with an Increased Risk of Childhood Asthma,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (177:2), pp. 142-147. Kozyrskyj, A. L., Mustard, C. A., and Becker, A. B.  2003.  “Childhood Wheezing Syndromes and Healthcare Data,” Pediatric Pulmonology (36:2), pp. 131-136.  Krieger, J. W., Takaro, T. K., Song, L., and Weaver, M.  2005.  “The Seattle-King County Healthy Homes Project:  A Randomized, Controlled Trial of a Community Health Worker Intervention to Decrease Exposure to Indoor Asthma Triggers,” American Journal of Public Health (95:4), pp. 652-659.  Kühni, C. E., and Sennhauser, F. H.  1995.  “The Yentl Syndrome in Childhood Asthma:  Risk Factors for Undertreatment in Swiss Children,” Pediatric Pulmonology (19:3), pp. 156-160. Lakhanpaul, M., Culley, L., Robertson, N., Bird, D., Hudson, N., Johal, N., McFeeters, M., Angell, E., Hamlyn-Williams, C., Abbas, N., Manikam, L., and Johnson, M.  2017.  “A Qualitative Study to Identify Parents’ Perceptions of and Barriers to Asthma Management in Children from South Asian and White British Families,” BMC Pulmonary Medicine (17:1), p. 126. Lara, M., Akinbami, L., Flores, G., and Morgenstern, H.  2006.  “Heterogeneity of Childhood Asthma among Hispanic Children:  Puerto Rican Children Bear a Disproportionate Burden,” Pediatrics (117:1), pp. 43-53.  Li, Y.-F., Langholz, B., Salam, M. T., and Gilliland, F. D.  2005.  “Maternal and Grandmaternal Smoking Patterns Are Associated with Early Childhood Asthma,” Chest (127:4), pp. 1232-1241.  Liu, A. H., Babineau, D. C., Krouse, R. Z., Zoratti, E. M., Pongracic, J. A., O’Connor, G. T., Wood, R. A., Khurana Hershey, G. K., Kercsmar, C. M., Gruchalla, R. S., Kattan, M., Teach, S. J., Makhija, M., Pillai, D., Lamm, C. I., Gern, J. E., Sigelman, S. M., Gergen, P. J., Togias, A., Visness, C. M., and Busse, W. W.  2016.  “Pathways through Which Asthma Risk Factors Contribute to Asthma Severity in Inner-City Children,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (138:4), pp. 1042-1050.  Lødrup Carlsen, K. C., Pettersen, M., and Carlsen, K.-H.  2004.  “Is Bronchodilator Response in 2-Yr-Old Children Associated with Asthma Risk Factors?,” Pediatric Allergy and Immunology:  Official Publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (15:4), pp. 323-330. 344 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Loisel, D. A., Tan, Z., Tisler, C. J., Evans, M. D., Gangnon, R. E., Jackson, D. J., Gern, J. E., Lemanske,  R. F., and Ober, C.  2011.  “IFNG Genotype and Sex Interact to Influence the Risk of Childhood Asthma,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (128:3), pp. 524-531.  Lukkarinen, M., Koistinen, A., Turunen, R., Lehtinen, P., Vuorinen, T., and Jartti, T.  2017.  “Rhinovirus-Induced First Wheezing Episode Predicts Atopic but Not Nonatopic Asthma at School Age,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (140:4), pp. 988-995.  Luskin, A. T., Chipps, B. E., Rasouliyan, L., Miller, D. P., Haselkorn, T., and Dorenbaum, A.  2014.  “Impact of Asthma Exacerbations and Asthma Triggers on Asthma-Related Quality of Life in Patients with Severe or Difficult-to-Treat Asthma,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology in Practice (2:5), pp. 544-552.e1-2.  Maher, J. E., Mullooly, J. P., Drew, L., and DeStefano, F.  2004.  “Infant Vaccinations and Childhood Asthma among Full-Term Infants,” Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety (13:1), pp. 1-9.  Mai, X.-M., Langhammer, A., Camargo, C. A., and Chen, Y.  2012.  “Serum 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Levels and Incident Asthma in Adults:  The HUNT Study,” American Journal of Epidemiology (176:12), pp. 1169-1176.  Malling, T. H., Sigsgaard, T., Andersen, H. R., Deguchi, Y., Brandslund, I., Skadhauge, L., Thomsen, G., Baelum, J., Sherson, D., and Omland, O.  2010.  “Differences in Associations between Markers of Antioxidative Defense and Asthma Are Sex Specific,” Gender Medicine (7:2), pp. 115-124.  Martin, M. A., Hernández, O., Naureckas, E., and Lantos, J.  2006.  “Reducing Home Triggers for Asthma:  The Latino Community Health Worker Approach,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (43:5), pp. 369-374.  Martin, M. A., Thomas, A. M., Mosnaim, G., Greve, M., Swider, S. M., and Rothschild, S. K.  2013.  “Home Asthma Triggers:  Barriers to Asthma Control in Chicago Puerto Rican Children,” Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved (24:2), pp. 813-827.  McCarty, J. C., and Ferguson, B. J.  2014.  “Identifying Asthma Triggers,” Otolaryngologic Clinics of North America (47:1), pp. 109-118.  Mo, F., Robinson, C., Choi, B. C., and Li, F. C.  2003.  “Analysis of Prevalence, Triggers, Risk Factors and the Related Socio-Economic Effects of Childhood Asthma in the Student Lung Health Survey (SLHS) Database, Canada 1996,” International Journal of Adolescent Medicine and Health (15:4), pp. 349-358. Mohammad, Y., Rafea, S., Latifeh, Y., Khaddam, A., Sawaf, B., Zakaria, M. I., Al Masalmeh, M. S., Fawaz, Y., Allaham, A., Almani, I., El- Tarcheh, H., Ghazal, A., Zaher, A., Rifai, H., Joumah, H., Glockler-Lauf, S. D., and To, T.  2017.  “Uncontrolled and Under-Diagnosed Asthma in a Damascus Shelter during the Syrian Crisis,” Journal of Thoracic Disease (9:9), pp. 3415-3424.  Myatt, T. A., Minegishi, T., Allen, J. G., and Macintosh, D. L.  2008.  “Control of Asthma Triggers in Indoor Air with Air Cleaners:  A Modeling Analysis,” Environmental Health:  A Global Access Science Source (7), p. 43. O’Leary, R., Wallace, J., and BREATH Study Research Group.  2012.  “Asthma Triggers on the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation in Western South Dakota:  The Breathing Relief Education and Tribal Health Empowerment (BREATHE) Study,” South Dakota Medicine:  The Journal of the South Dakota State Medical Association (65:2), pp. 57, 59, 61 passim. Ownby, D. R., Tingen, M. S., Havstad, S., Waller, J. L., Johnson, C. C., and Joseph, C. L. M.  2015.  “Comparison of Asthma Prevalence among African American Teenage Youth Attending Public High Schools in Rural Georgia and Urban Detroit,” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (136:3), pp. 595-600.e3. Pereira, M. U., Sly, P. D., Pitrez, P. M., Jones, M. H., Escouto, D., Dias, A. C. O., Weiland, S. K., and Stein, R. T.  2007.  “Nonatopic Asthma Is Associated with Helminth Infections and Bronchiolitis in Poor Children,” The European Respiratory Journal (29:6), pp. 1154-1160.  Peroni, D. G., Chatzimichail, A., and Boner, A. L.  2002.  “Food Allergy:  What Can Be Done to Prevent Progression to Asthma?,” Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology:  Official Publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology (89:6 Suppl 1), pp. 44-51. Peroni, D. G., Piacentini, G. L., Bodini, A., and Boner, A. L.  2009.  “Preschool Asthma in Italy:  Prevalence, Risk Factors and Health Resource Utilization,” Respiratory Medicine (103:1), pp. 104-108.  Peterson, M. G. E., Gaeta, T. J., Birkhahn, R. H., Fernández, J. L., and Mancuso, C. A.  2012.  “History of Symptom Triggers in Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department for Asthma,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (49:6), pp. 629-636.  Polley, D. J., Mihara, K., Ramachandran, R., Vliagoftis, H., Renaux, B., Saifeddine, M., Daines, M. O., Boitano, S., and Hollenberg, M. D.  2017.  “Cockroach Allergen Serine Proteinases:  Isolation, Sequencing and Signalling via Proteinase-Activated Receptor-2,” Clinical and Experimental Allergy:  Journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (47:7), pp. 946-960.  Price, D., Dale, P., Elder, E., and Chapman, K. R.  2014.  “Types, Frequency and Impact of Asthma Triggers on Patients’ Lives:  A Quantitative Study in Five European Countries,” The Journal of Asthma (51:2), pp. 127-135.  Quiralte, J., Llanes, E., Barral, P., Arias de Saavedra, J. M., Sáenz de San Pedro, B., Villalba, M., Florido, J. F., Rodríguez, R., Lahoz, C., and Cárdaba, B.  2005.  “Ole e 2 and Ole e 10:  New Clinical Aspects and Genetic Restrictions in Olive Pollen Allergy,” Allergy (60:3), pp. 360-365.  Rank, M. A., Wollan, P., Li, J. T., and Yawn, B. P.  2010.  “Trigger Recognition and Management in Poorly Controlled Asthmatics,” Allergy and Asthma Proceedings (31:6), pp. 99-105.  Reddy, A. L., Gomez, M., and Dixon, S. L.  2017.  “An Evaluation of a State-Funded Healthy Homes Intervention on Asthma Outcomes in Adults and Children,” Journal of Public Health Management and Practice (23:2), pp. 219-228.  Redlich, C. A.  2010.  “Skin Exposure and Asthma:  Is There a Connection?,” Proceedings of the American Thoracic Society (7:2), pp. 134-137.  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 345 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Reisman, J., Schachter, H. M., Dales, R. E., Tran, K., Kourad, K., Barnes, D., Sampson, M., Morrison, A., Gaboury, I., and Blackman, J.  2006.  “Treating Asthma with Omega-3 Fatty Acids:  Where Is the Evidence?  A Systematic Review,” BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine (6), p. 26.  Ritz, T., Bobb, C., and Griffiths, C.  2014.  “Predicting Asthma Control:  The Role of Psychological Triggers,” Allergy and Asthma Proceedings (35:5), pp. 390-397.  Ritz, T., Kullowatz, A., Bobb, C., Dahme, B., Magnussen, H., Kanniess, F., and Steptoe, A.  2008.  “Psychological Triggers and Hyper- ventilation Symptoms in Asthma,” Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology:  Official Publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology (100:5), pp. 426-432.  Ritz, T., Kullowatz, A., Kanniess, F., Dahme, B., and Magnussen, H.  2008.  “Perceived Triggers of Asthma:  Evaluation of a German Version of the Asthma Trigger Inventory,” Respiratory Medicine (102:3), pp. 390-398.  Ritz, T., Steptoe, A., Bobb, C., Harris, A. H. S., and Edwards, M.  2006.  “The Asthma Trigger Inventory:  Validation of a Questionnaire for Perceived Triggers of Asthma,” Psychosomatic Medicine (68:6), pp. 956-965.  Ritz, T., Wittchen, H.-U., Klotsche, J., Mühlig, S., Riedel, O., and sap-NEEDs study group.  2016.  “Asthma Trigger Reports Are Associated with Low Quality of Life, Exacerbations, and Emergency Treatments,” Annals of the American Thoracic Society (13:2), pp.  204-211.  Rojas Molina, N., Legorreta Soberanis, J., and Olvera Guerra, F.  2001.  “Prevalence and Asthma Risk Factors in Municipalities of the State of Guerrero, Mexico,” Revista Alergia Mexico (48:4), pp. 115-118. Rolfsjord, L. B., Skjerven, H. O., Bakkeheim, E., Carlsen, K.-H., Hunderi, J. O. G., Kvenshagen, B. K., Mowinckel, P., and Lødrup Carlsen, K. C.  2015.  “Children Hospitalised with Bronchiolitis in the First Year of Life Have a Lower Quality of Life Nine Months Later,” Acta Paediatrica (104:1), pp. 53-58.  Ross, K. R., Hart, M. A., Storfer-Isser, A., Kibler, A. M. V., Johnson, N. L., Rosen, C. L., Kercsmar, C. M., and Redline, S.  2009.  “Obesity and Obesity Related Co-Morbidities in a Referral Population of Children with Asthma,” Pediatric Pulmonology (44:9), pp. 877-884.  Sarafino, E. P., and Dillon, J. M.  1998.  “Relationships among Respiratory Infections, Triggers of Attacks, and Asthma Severity in Children,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (35:6), pp. 497-504. Sarafino, E. P., Gates, M., and DePaulo, D.  2001.  “The Role of Age at Asthma Diagnosis in the Development of Triggers of Asthma Episodes,” Journal of Psychosomatic Research (51:5), pp. 623-628. Sarafino, E. P., and Goldfedder, J.  1995.  “Genetic Factors in the Presence, Severity, and Triggers of Asthma,” Archives of Disease in Childhood (73:2), pp. 112-116.  Seo, Y., Nonaka, M., Tagaya, E., Tamaoki, J., and Yoshihara, T.  2015.  “Eosinophilic Otitis Media Is Associated with Asthma Severity and Smoking History,” ORL; Journal for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology and Its Related Specialties (77:1), pp. 1-9.  Shendell, D. G., Rawling, M.-M., Foster, C., Bohlke, A., Edwards, B., Rico, S. A., Felix, J., Eaton, S., Moen, S., Roberts, E. M., and Love, M. B.  2007.  “The Outdoor Air Quality Flag Program in Central California:  A School-Based Educational Intervention to Potentially Help Reduce Children’s Exposure to Environmental Asthma Triggers,” Journal of Environmental Health (70:3), pp. 28-31. Sims, J. R., Tibbles, P. M., and Jackman, R. P.  1999.  “A Descriptive Analysis of Asthma in the U.S. Navy Submarine Force,” Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine (70:12), pp. 1214-1218. Sotir, M., Yeatts, K., and Shy, C.  2003.  “Presence of Asthma Risk Factors and Environmental Exposures Related to Upper Respiratory Infection-Triggered Wheezing in Middle School-Age Children,” Environmental Health Perspectives (111:4), pp. 657-662. Stridsman, C., Dahlberg, E., Zandrén, K., and Hedman, L.  2017.  “Asthma in Adolescence Affects Daily Life and School Attendance—Two Cross-Sectional Population-Based Studies 10 Years Apart,” Nursing Open (4:3), pp. 143-148.  Subbarao, P., Becker, A., Brook, J. R., Daley, D., Mandhane, P. J., Miller, G. E., Turvey, S. E., and Sears, M. R.  2009.  “Epidemiology of Asthma:  Risk Factors for Development,” Expert Review of Clinical Immunology (5:1), pp. 77-95.  Sutherland, E. R., Brandorff, J. M., and Martin, R. J.  2004.  “Atypical Bacterial Pneumonia and Asthma Risk,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (41:8), pp. 863-868. Takaro, T. K., Krieger, J. W., and Song, L.  2004.  “Effect of Environmental Interventions to Reduce Exposure to Asthma Triggers in Homes of Low-Income Children in Seattle,” Journal of Exposure Analysis and Environmental Epidemiology (14 Suppl 1), pp. S133-143.  Toskala, E., and Kennedy, D. W.  2015.  “Asthma Risk Factors,” International Forum of Allergy & Rhinology (5 Suppl 1), pp. S11-16.  Turyk, M., Banda, E., Chisum, G., Weems, D., Liu, Y., Damitz, M., Williams, R., and Persky, V.  2013.  “A Multifaceted Community-Based Asthma Intervention in Chicago:  Effects of Trigger Reduction and Self-Management Education on Asthma Morbidity,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (50:7), pp. 729-736. Uthaisangsook, S.  2010.  “Risk Factors for Development of Asthma in Thai Adults in Phitsanulok:  A University-Based Study,” Asian Pacific Journal of Allergy and Immunology (28:1), pp. 23-28. Valizadeh, L., Zarei, S., Zamanazadeh, V., Bilan, N., Nasiri, K., and Howard, F.  2014.  “The Effects of Triggers’ Modifying on Adolescent Self-Efficacy with Asthma:  A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial,” Journal of Caring Sciences (3:2), pp. 121-129.  Vazquez, K., Sandler, J., Interian, A., and Feldman, J. M.  2017.  “Emotionally Triggered Asthma and Its Relationship to Panic Disorder, Ataques de Nervios, and Asthma-Related Death of a Loved One in Latino Adults,” Journal of Psychosomatic Research (93), pp. 76-82.  Vernon, M. K., Wiklund, I., Bell, J. A., Dale, P., and Chapman, K. R.  2012.  “What Do We Know about Asthma Triggers? A Review of the Literature,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (49:10), pp. 991-998.  346 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Wang, T. N., Chao, Y. Y., Wang, T. H., Chen, C. J., and Ko, Y. C.  2001.  “Familial Risk of Asthma among Adolescents and Their Relatives in Taiwan,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (38:6), pp. 485-494. Warman, K., Silver, E. J., and Wood, P. R.  2006.  “Asthma Risk Factor Assessment:  What Are the Needs of Inner-City Families?,” Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology:  Official Publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology (97:1 Suppl 1), pp. S11-15. Washington, D., Yeatts, K., Sleath, B., Ayala, G. X., Gillette, C., Williams, D., Davis, S., and Tudor, G.  2012.  “Communication and Education about Triggers and Environmental Control Strategies during Pediatric Asthma Visits,” Patient Education and Counseling (86:1), pp. 63-69.  Webley, W. C., and Aldridge, K. L.  2015.  “Infectious Asthma Triggers:  Time to Revise the Hygiene Hypothesis?,” Trends in Microbiology (23:7), pp. 389-391.  Weiss, S. T., Horner, A., Shapiro, G., Sternberg, A. L., and Childhood Asthma Management Program (CAMP) Research Group.  2001.  “The Prevalence  of Environmental Exposure to Perceived Asthma Triggers in Children with Mild-to-Moderate Asthma:  Data from the Childhood Asthma Management Program (CAMP),” The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (107:4), pp. 634-640.  Wendt, J. K., Symanski, E., and Du, X. L.  2012.  “Estimation of Asthma Incidence among Low-Income Children in Texas:  A Novel Approach Using Medicaid Claims Data,” American Journal of Epidemiology (176:8), pp. 744-750.  Whu, R., Cirilo, G., Wong, J., Finkel, M. L., Mendez, H. A., and Leggiadro, R. J.  2007.  “Risk Factors for Pediatric Asthma in the South Bronx,” The Journal of Asthma:  Official Journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma (44:10), pp. 855-859.  Worgall, T. S.  2017.  “Sphingolipids, ORMDL3 and Asthma:  What Is the Evidence?,” Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care (20:2), pp. 99-103.  Xu, H., Radabaugh, T., Lu, Z., Galligan, M., Billheimer, D., Vercelli, D., Wright, A. L., Monks, T. J., Halonen, M., and Lau, S. S.  2016.  “Exploration of Early-Life Candidate Biomarkers for Childhood Asthma Using Antibody Arrays,” Pediatric Allergy and Immunology:  Official Publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (27:7), pp. 696-701.  Zedan, Magdy, Nasef, N., El-Bayoumy, M., El-Assmy, M., Attia, G., Zedan, Mohamed, AlWakeel, A., Kandil, S., Laimon, W., and Fouda, A.  2012.  “Does Decline of Lung Function in Wheezy Infants Justify the Early Start of Controller Medications?,” Indian Journal of Pediatrics (79:9), pp. 1176-1180.  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 347 Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Appendix B Random Forest for Asthma Triggers/Risk Factors Assessment with Relative Importance In this study, we use random forest to measure feature importance based on the decrease in average feature impurity . Using random forest for feature importance measuring has been receiving increased attention in many domains (Strobl et al. 2007).  The advantages of using random forest rather than multiple linear regression methods are that it allows nonlinearities and interactions among the data without explicitly identifying them (Grömping 2009) and it requires very little feature engineering and parameter tuning (Breiman 2001). The Gini importance for classification is a well-known variable importance metric in random forests (Breiman 2001).  It is operationalized as follows: A random forest is a classifier consisting of a collection of tree-structured classifiers {h(x, èk), k = 1, 2, 3, … …}where {èk} the are independent and identically distributed random vectors and each tree h(x) casts a unit vote for the most popular class for input x (Breiman 2001).  Every node in h(x) is a condition on a single feature.  In a two-way classification problem, every node in the tree h(x) splits the input data x into two so that data records with similar response values are in the same set.  Impurity is the measure used to choose the local optimal condition.  Gini impurity (originally used by the CART (Chebrolu et al. 2005) algorithm) measures how often a randomly chosen data record from the input x is incorrectly labeled if it was randomly labeled according to the distribution of labels in the subset.  In a two-way classification problem, the Gini impurity can be calculated as IG(p) = 1G{ ,1  } p(i|t)2, where pi is the fraction of data records annotated with class in the data set.  Gini impurity (IG ) reaches zero (the minimum) when all the data records in a tree node fall into a single class.  Thus, when training a tree h(x), we can calculate how much each feature decreases the weighted impurity in a tree.  For a forest {h(x, èK), k = 1, 2, 3, … …}, the impurity decrease from each feature can be averaged and the features are ranked according to Gini impurity . – 1 = i   1 In this study, we have already identified self-reported asthma patients on social media (see “Identifying Self-Reported Asthma Patients on Social Media” in the paper).  So the random forest classification target is already known (i.e., patients with asthma affliction or non-affliction).  The focus of this study is to measure feature (i.e., asthma triggers and risk factors) importance based on Gini impurity.  Figure B1 illustrates the use of random forest in this study. Figure B1.  Random Forest for Asthma Triggers/Risk Factors Assessment with Relative Importance 348 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 References for Appendix B Zhang & Ram/Analysis of Triggers & Risk Factors for Asthma Breiman, L.  2001.  “Random Forests,” Machine Learning (45:1), pp. 5-32.  Chebrolu, S., Abraham, A., and Thomas, J. P.  2005.  “Feature Deduction and Ensemble Design of Intrusion Detection Systems,” Computers & Security (24:4), pp. 295-307. (63:4), pp. 308-319.  Grömping, U.  2009.  “Variable Importance Assessment in Regression:  Linear Regression versus Random Forest,” The American Statistician Strobl, C., Boulesteix, A.-L., Zeileis, A., and Hothorn, T.  2007.  “Bias in Random Forest Variable Importance Measures:  Illustrations, Sources and a Solution,” BMC Bioinformatics (8:1), p. 25.  MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 349 Copyright of MIS Quarterly is the property of MIS Quarterly and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. 