SPECIAL ISSUE A DATA ANALYTICS FRAMEWORK FOR SMART ASTHMA MANAGEMENT BASED ON REMOTE HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEMS WITH BLUETOOTH- ENABLED PERSONAL INHALERS1 Junbo Son Alfred Lerner College of Business & Economics, University of Delaware, Newark, DE  19716  U.S.A.  {junboson@udel.edu} Patricia Flatley Brennan National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD  20894  U.S.A.  {patti.brennan@nih.gov} Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering, University of Wisconsin–Madison, Madison, WI  53706  U.S.A.  {shiyuzhou@wisc.edu} Shiyu Zhou Asthma is a prevalent respiratory chronic disease affecting a large portion of the global population.  Patients diagnosed with asthma may experience significantly reduced quality of life if their asthma is not properly controlled.  To facilitate better asthma self-management, asthma specialists and engineers have developed the smart asthma management system (SAM).  This new health information system provides Bluetooth-enabled inhalers and collects time stamps of every rescue inhaler use.  Such detailed inhaler usage logs, which are crucial for investigating patterns of inhaler usage, were not available in traditional clinical trials because clinical trials acquire data only periodically.  Due to the low data collection resolution of clinical trials, quantitative asthma studies based on trial data have been focusing mainly on capturing the increasing trend in the number of rescue inhaler uses.  Taking advantage of the patient monitoring capability of the SAM system, we developed a data analytics framework for detecting abnormal inhaler use that is out of the patient’s normal usage pattern.  The new statistical model developed in this paper can address the key features of the data collected from the SAM system such as the heterogeneous impact of environmental factors on inhaler usage behavior and the correlation structure governed by the patient’s repetitive routines.  We show the satisfactory performance of our data analytics framework through rigorous comparison with various benchmark methods.  Furthermore, we give an in-depth discussion on our contribution to the information systems (IS) knowledge base and practical implications of our analytics framework to data-driven asthma management practice. Keywords:  Smart asthma management, design science, healthcare data analytics, health IT, health information system 1 1The accepting senior editors for this paper were Indranil Bardhan, Hsinchun Chen, and Elena Karahanna. DOI:  10.25300/MISQ/2020/15092 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1, pp. 285-303/March 2020 285 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Introduction Asthma  is  one  of  the  most  prevalent  chronic  diseases,  af- fecting approximately 24.6 million people in the United States in 2015 (7.8% of the U.S. population) (CDC 2016).  Patients diagnosed with asthma may experience symptoms including coughing, wheezing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath.  If asthma is not controlled properly, symptoms can signifi- cantly reduce patients’ quality of life (Carranza et al. 2004).  In  addition,  uncontrolled  asthma  introduces  a  substantial amount of economic burden.  Just for the United States alone, the asthma-related societal cost is estimated as $81.9 billion (Nurmagambetov et al. 2017).  One of the key components for properly  controlling  asthma  is  asthma  self-management, which  requires  consistent  monitoring  of  patient’s  asthma symptoms and medication usage (Ahmed et al. 2016). In the current practice of asthma self-management, patients are asked to gauge their asthma control level by referring to asthma action plans or guidelines that their doctors provide.  Such action plans are mainly based on a threshold specified by the number of times the patient had to use his/her rescue inhaler (NHLBI 2007; Patel et al. 2014).  Practitioners have often used threshold-based approaches due to their simplicity, but there are several issues.  First, rescue inhaler use does not directly indicate an unbearable asthmatic symptom.  Some patients use the inhaler preemptively before they engage in physical  activity  (Anderson  et  al.  2006).    Also,  even  if  a patient had to use the inhaler because of symptoms, individual patients have different perceptions of their symptoms, with wide variations related especially to gender and age (Zein and Erzurum  2016).    Acknowledging  the  limitations  discussed above, asthma self-management practice has been improved by adopting various health information systems (HIS) (Huck- vale et al. 2015).  At the same time, both care providers and patients have started to notice the potential of model-based and  data-driven  asthma  self-management  using  advanced health data analytics (Son et al. 2017).  Analytics and HIS cannot be separated from each other, because a new form of HIS often calls for a new analytics method, and the knowl- edge  that  the  analytics  method  discovers  provides  useful feedback  to  the  HIS  for  promoting  better  asthma  self- management. Currently, there are diverse asthma management HIS, ranging from a simple electronic asthma action plan replacing paper- based asthma action plans (Licskai et al. 2013) to diary-type smartphone applications and web-based summary dashboards (Casper and Brennan 2013; Wu et al. 2015).  Asthma manage- ment notably benefits from the use of such HIS because they keep records of patients’ asthma-related events (Merchant et al. 2016).  However, the existing HIS for asthma care rely mainly on patients’ self-reported data (Ahmed et al. 2016).  286 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 The data that patients manually and voluntarily report have several issues, including human input errors and an excessive amount of missing observations (Son et al. 2017).  The most critical  issue  is  that  patients’  personal  perceptions  often heavily affect the self-reported health data (Janssens et al. 2009).    For  instance,  some  patients  may  report  minor coughing as an asthma-related event, whereas other patients may ignore it. To  overcome  these  issues,  a  new  HIS,  the  smart  asthma management (SAM) system, has been developed.  The SAM system is a novel asthma management HIS that uses remote patient monitoring technology.  The SAM platform is equip- ped with a Bluetooth sensor that is attachable to various types of personal inhalers.  The sensor attachment records the date and  time  of  every  inhaler  use  of  individual  patients.    The SAM  system  not  only  provides  a  detailed  history  of  the patients’ inhaler usage, but also several asthma-related envi- ronmental factors (e.g., temperature and air pollution level).  The SAM system has been used for monitoring medication adherence, improving asthma control, and providing summary reports to patients and healthcare providers (Chan et al. 2015; Van Sickle et al. 2013).  It should be noted that the develop- ment  of  the  SAM  system  provides  a  new  data  source  for quantitative analysis in asthma management.  Traditionally, the major data source for data-driven asthma studies, or quan- titative health studies in general, has been clinical trials (Lin et al. 2017).  Trial-based health data provide rich information about a patient’s asthma condition because the data were ob- tained through a series of lab tests and diagnosis made by medical experts.  On the other hand, data acquisition in the SAM system is remotely done through sensors and wireless network; hence, inevitably, SAM data cannot be as compre- hensive as trial-based data.  However, the SAM system can monitor asthma patients in almost real time, and the remote patient monitoring technology embedded in the SAM plat- form provides a significant research opportunity in healthcare data analytics.  The data collection resolution of periodically conducted clinical trials is often too low to highlight inhaler usage patterns in detail.  In contrast, the high-frequency data acquisition capability of the SAM system now allows us to model the inhaler usage patterns of individual patients.  For instance, the SAM data can be used for investigating indi- vidual patients’ number of rescue inhaler uses in every one- hour window across different days of the week.   Although there are many analytics methods readily available in the literature, it is often necessary to develop a specialized analytics method tailored to the new types of patient-level health data to facilitate knowledge discovery (Kohli and Tan 2016).    For  that  reason,  in  the  recent  IS  literature,  many design  science  studies  have  been  focusing  on  developing innovative information technology (IT) artifacts for various health data other than traditional trial-based data (e.g., elec- tronic health records, EHRs) (Lin et al. 2017).  In the same spirit, to take full advantage of the data availability provided by the SAM system, we aim to develop an analytics frame- work that can visualize and model the inhaler usage pattern, so that we can detect an inhaler use that is out of the patient’s normal usage pattern.  Our research objectives can be sum- marized as  • • • To provide a visualization tool highlighting inhaler usage patterns To provide a statistical model specifically tailored to the SAM data To provide a data-driven method for detecting deviations from normal inhaler usage patterns Addressing the research questions listed above has a great potential for improving the current practice of asthma self- management  because  patients  diagnosed  with  asthma  can achieve  better  asthma  control  by  understanding  their  own inhaler usage patterns.  As discussed earlier, so far, asthma patient monitoring has been conducted in a way that empha- sizes  trends  (Son  et  al.  2016).    In  other  words,  the  data analytics methods in asthma management have been focusing on identifying increasing trends in the number of inhaler uses.  This  trend-based  approach  does  not  require  real-time  data acquisition capability; hence, it is often used for traditional trial-based health data.  Trend-based methods are useful for assessing the risk of gradual and persistent degradation of asthma control level (Son et al. 2017), but it may not be easy to detect a single unexpected inhaler use that is out of the patient’s  typical  usage  pattern.    Such  out-of-pattern  usage provides a different kind of meaningful information, because the abnormal inhaler use might be caused by short-term expo- sure to an asthma trigger, sudden exacerbation, or exercise- induced symptoms (Anderson et al. 2006). From the methodological perspective, our research problem boils down to developing a method to investigate the mech- anism  of  a  certain  type  of  event  occurrence  (inhaler  use).  Therefore,  we  can  find  several  existing  methods  that  are applicable to our problem.  Because the dependent variable in our study can be viewed as count data (the number of rescue inhaler uses within a given time window), we can use the generalized linear mixed-effects models (GLMMs) based on either  Poisson  or  negative  binomial  distributions  (Agresti 2001).  In addition, we may treat rescue inhaler usage as a binary variable (i.e., “1” if the patient has used his/her inhaler within a certain time window and “0” otherwise), and use a different type of GLMM such as the logistic regression model (Son et al. 2016).  However, the GLMMs share a common drawback for modeling SAM data.  SAM data is categorized as observations of daily living (ODLs) and analysis based on Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management ODLs should acknowledge the nuances of the context and environment in which patients live, as well as the patients’ daily routine (Backonja et al. 2012).  The repetitive routine of the individual patients introduces a unique correlation among data points (e.g., there should be correlated observations if a patient routinely exercises at a certain time across different days  of  the  week).    The  conventional  GLMMs  provide  a limited flexibility for specifying a correlation structure among event occurrences (Pinheiro and Bates 2000).  We may con- sider a well-established classifier such as the support vector machine (SVM), because the goal of our study is to develop a model for identifying abnormal inhaler use that is out of the patient’s regular usage pattern (Bennett and Campbell 2000).  We can train the SVM based on the individual patient’s SAM data and perform the abnormality detection.  However, the SVM has a potential issue in the SAM application because training  the  SVM  is  mainly  done  based  on  data  from  a specific individual patient.  In other words, individual-level classifiers often ignore the common characteristics of asthma shared by all patients diagnosed with asthma.  For instance, asthma  patients  whose  asthma  control  test  scores  are  low typically have more nocturnal inhaler uses (NHLBI 2007).  Such  information  can  be  captured  better  with  regression models than the individual-level classifiers.  In addition, each individual patient reacts to the same environmental asthma trigger differently, and the environmental factors are assumed to have impacts on the variability of inhaler usage (Su et al. 2017).    To  properly  quantify  the  effects  of  environmental asthma triggers, the model should be able to define a sub- model dedicated to characterizing the variability of rescue inhaler use.  In general, such dispersion models cannot be established  by  both  the  GLMMs  and  individual-level classifiers. To fill the research gap discussed above, in this paper we propose a new data analytics method:  the generalized linear mixed effects model with a grid-based quasi-Poisson distribu- tion (GLMM-GQP).  Our data analytics framework begins with data transformation.  The SAM data is longitudinal and, instead  of  directly  modeling  the  longitudinal  data,  we transform the data into a grid format.  The grid separates the entire week into 168 grids (24 hours a day and 7 days a week) and sums the number of inhaler uses of individual patients within each cell.  This data transformation helps us visualize the inhaler usage pattern within a week.  Then, we fit the GLMM-GQP to the grid data.  The GLMM-GQP has several features that are desirable for the SAM application.  First, the GLMM-GQP  includes  patient-level  and  grid-level random effects.  Therefore, detecting out-of-pattern inhaler usage can be personalized to each patient.  Second, the GLMM-GQP has a sub-model for characterizing the variability of inhaler usage behavior.  This means that the GLMM-GQP models not only the mean (intensity of inhaler use) but also the dispersion MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 287 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management (variability  of  the  inhaler  use);  hence,  we  can  use  it  for modeling the impact of environmental asthma triggers.  Third, the GLMM-GQP adopts the conditional autoregressive (CAR) model for the grid-level random effects.  With the CAR model structure,  any  kind  of  correlation  structure  among  rescue inhaler  uses  can  be  flexibly specified  in the  GLMM-GQP reflecting the patient’s repetitive daily routine.  For instance, if a patient exercises at 4:00 p.m. every day, we can define the correlation  structure  accordingly  so  that  the  inhaler  uses observed in the same time windows across different days of the week are correlated. The rest of paper is organized as follows:  In the next section, we provide a review on both the data analytics literature and the IS literature that are relevant to our study.  In the model development section, we describe our test bed and the SAM data used in the study followed by a description of the pro- posed analytics method.  Then, we report the performance evaluation results, comparing our approach to the benchmark methods.  Finally, we conclude the paper with a summary of our contributions and future research directions motivated by the  limitations  of  the  current  study.    We  also  discuss  the practical implications and provide guidelines to IS scholars and practitioners. Literature Review Literature on Statistical Models In clinical literature, one of the popular statistical models used in  trial-based  asthma  studies  is  the  Markov  model  (Saint- Pierre et al. 2006).  The Markov model in asthma studies can quantify the impacts of various biomarkers on the transition probabilities among different levels of asthma control (Com- bescure et al. 2003).  For instance, the Markov model can tell whether body mass index is positively or negatively asso- ciated  with  the  transition  probability  from  optimal  asthma control  to  unacceptable  asthma  control  (Saint-Pierre  et  al. 2003).  With this model, we can assess  the risk of  transi- tioning to uncontrolled asthma for individual patients when- ever updated measurements from that specific patient become available.  Despite the promising capabilities of the Markov model,  it  is  not  directly  applicable  to  the  SAM  platform because one of the crucial inputs for the Markov model is the clinically defined asthma control level that practitioners grade through a series of clinical evaluations and lab tests (Saint- Pierre et al. 2006).  Because the SAM system acquires data from the asthma patients remotely through sensors, on-site clinical evaluations of asthma control based on lab tests are not available; hence, fitting the Markov model to the SAM data  is  practically  infeasible.    To  resolve  this  issue,  an 288 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 extended Markov model called the correlated gamma-based hidden Markov model (CG-HMM) recently has been devel- oped to detect a persistent and gradual degradation of asthma control (Son et al. 2017).  The CG-HMM is based on a hidden Markov model where the true asthma condition is assumed to be hidden but can be inferred by the number of rescue inhaler uses per day.  Although the performance of the CG-HMM is satisfactory  for  identifying  gradual  degradation  in  asthma control  level,  the  CG-HMM  may  not  be  suitable  for  our purpose.  The objective of our study is to detect a sudden inhaler use that is out of the patient’s normal inhaler usage pattern.  Because the CG-HMM uses aggregated daily number of inhaler uses, it is challenging to characterize the micro- level rescue inhaler usage patterns. In addition to the statistical models that frequently have been used in asthma studies, the generalized linear models (GLMs) and GLMMs have been the most natural choice for modeling various event occurrences (Agresti 2001).  As the name sug- gests, the GLMM-GQP proposed in this paper is an extended version of the GLMM, integrating various statistical methods into a unified model structure.  The basis of the GLMM-GQP is the GLMM with patient-level and grid-level random ef- fects.  To address the common issue of over-dispersion in count data, the GLMM-GQP adopts the quasi-Poisson distri- bution  (Wedderburn  1974).    However,  the  conventional GLMM  based  on  the  quasi-Poisson  distribution  cannot address  some  of  the  key  characteristics  of  the  SAM  data. First,  as  mentioned  earlier,  various  environmental  factors affect the variability rather than the mean of inhaler usage (Su et al. 2017).  Therefore, it is important to have a sub-model dedicated to characterizing the dispersion.  The quasi-Poisson distribution is defined by two parameters:  the mean (inten- sity)  and  dispersion,  and  the  GLMM  based  on  the  quasi- Poisson distribution focuses on modeling the mean (Clayton and Kaldor 1987).  For the GLMs, which are simpler than the GLMMs, there exists a rigorous way to model both the mean and dispersion.  Because the model structure is doubled, it is called the double GLM (DGLM) and researchers have often used  it  for  analyzing  insurance  claims  data  (Smyth  and Jorgensen 2002).  The idea of DGLM fits well to the SAM application.    However,  it  is  not  readily  available  for  the GLMMs.  Further, there is another issue with the existing GLMMs:  The rescue inhaler usage behavior is inevitably influenced  by  the  individual  patient’s  daily  routine.    For instance, a patient who regularly exercises at 4:00 p.m. every day should show a positive correlation in the inhaler usage pattern at 4:00 p.m. across different days of the week.  In spatial statistics, there are several methods to address this type of structured correlation, such as the conditional autoregres- sive (CAR) model (Cressie 1993).  The CAR model provides a powerful tool for modeling the correlation structure among rescue inhaler uses across different times of the day and dif- Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Table 1.  Differences in the Relevant Methods Model GLM GLMM DGLM GLMM-GQP Fixed Effects Random Effects Characteristics and Capabilities Dispersion Model Special Correlation T T T T T T T T Limited T ferent days of the week.  However, to the best of our knowl- edge, the CAR model has been primarily used only in the field of spatial statistics, and it has not been integrated into the GLMMs. To summarize, the GLMM-GQP integrates three statistical methods to establish a specialized regression model tailored to  the  SAM  data.    The  GLMM-GQP  has  the  log-normal random effects as in the conventional GLMMs and defines a separate dispersion model as in the DGLM.  Furthermore, the GLMM-GQP adopts the CAR model to specify the distribu- tion of the grid-level random effects with a flexible corre- lation structure among observations.  The differences between the  GLMM-GQP  and  other  relevant  statistical  models  are highlighted in Table 1. IS Literature and Positioning of Our Study In addition to highlighting methodological contributions by contrasting our analytics method with the statistical models that are available in the literature, we would like to clarify the position of our work in the IS literature.  Driven by recent advancements and increased penetration of IT in healthcare, it is recognized that the IS community can play an important role in enhancing current healthcare practices (Buntin et al. 2011;  Kolodner  et  al.  2008).    Given  the  diverse  domains involved, it is not trivial to realize the potential that IS can offer in terms of improving the quality of healthcare (Kane and Labianca 2011).  However, it is possible to further the impact of IS on healthcare by developing healthcare analytics methods  (Fichman  et  al.  2011).    As  we  discussed  earlier, analyzing new types of health data provided by the diverse HIS  is  often  challenging  with  existing  analytics  methods.  Therefore,  such  research  topics  have  attracted  significant interest among IS scholars.  We can find examples in recent IS literature:  a predictive analytics method on the readmis- sion of patients with congestive heart failure (Bardhan et al. 2015) and a Bayesian multitask learning approach for risk profiling using diabetes as an example (Lin et al 2017), both based on EHRs.  This research expansion on healthcare analy- tics has facilitated knowledge discovery based  on medical data that have been either unavailable or underutilized.  For instance,  even  social  media  data  has  been  investigated  in healthcare  analytics  IS  literature  (Kallinikos  and  Tempini 2014), and researchers suggest that social media will be a promising new foundation for medical knowledge creation. As reflected by the social media example above, the definition of  HIS  is  evolving  and  IS  scholars  can  make  impactful contributions to healthcare research by developing novel IT artifacts that can solve complex problems in modern health- care practice (Agarwal et al. 2010).  The SAM platform intro- duced  in  our  study  is  indeed  an  example  of  the  extended definition of HIS, and it provides a new way of performing data-driven asthma management.  By taking advantage of the new data source, we developed an analytics method that may hold promise for reducing asthma-related costs and improving quality of life for asthma patients.  Therefore, our study fits to the current IS design science research stream of health ana- lytics.  In HIS literature, experts in healthcare, IS, and various engineering disciplines have proposed the vision of smart and connected health, which aims to offer just-in-time and just- for-me clinical interventions through advancing the HIS and analytics methods (Leroy et al. 2014).  The analytics frame- work  developed  in  this  study  is  for  detecting  an  unusual inhaler use that is out of the individual patient’s normal usage pattern  so  that  timely  intervention  can  be  made  prior  to serious degradation of the specific patient’s asthma status.  Thus, the objectives of our solution artifact are well-aligned with  the  vision  of  smart  and  connected  health.    The  data analytics  methods  developed  in  this  paper  significantly improve  the  existing  methods  to  provide  a  better  solution artifact for the SAM system, a newly introduced asthma man- agement HIS.  In other words, our study is a good example of an  exaptation  study,  which  a  prevalent  type  of  IS  design science research (Gregor and Hevner 2013). Model Development The  proposed  data  analytics  framework  for  identifying unusual inhaler usage is composed of three distinctive steps as shown in Figure 1.  The first step is the data transforma- MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 289 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 1.  Overall Structure of the Data Analytics Framework for the SAM System tion.  The transformed data provides us not only the basis of model fitting but also a data visualization tool highlighting inhaler usage patterns.  The second step is to fit the GLMM- GQP to the SAM data, and the third step is to implement the out-of-pattern inhaler usage detection algorithm. Description on the Data Collection To make our discussion easier, we first introduce our test bed and provide a description on the SAM data.  We then illus- trate the proposed data analytics framework. sensor stores the data in its local memory, which can hold approximately 3,900 events, and transmit the information at a later time (Van Sickle et al. 2013). Our  test  bed  has  already  demonstrated  improved  asthma clinical outcomes, such as longer symptom-free days and less frequent use of the inhaler (Barrett et al. 2017; Kim et al. 2016; Merchant et al. 2016).  Furthermore, according to a survey study, the participants (asthma patients) were highly satisfied with this new asthma management HIS (Kim et al. 2016).  The structure of the SAM platform and its information flows are illustrated in Figure 2. Description of the Test Bed Data Description Propeller Health, Madison, WI, implements and manages the SAM platform investigated in this study.  Propeller Health has developed  a  Bluetooth  sensor  that  is  attachable  to various types  of  inhaled  medications  for  asthma.    The  sensor  has received 510(k) class II clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (Kim et al. 2016).  In addition, according  to  Federal  Communications  Commission  (FCC) licensing  and  the  FDA’s  wireless  Bluetooth  technology testing standards, the Propeller Health sensor demonstrated reliable performance for sensor actuations and data capture (Su et al. 2017).  When a patient administers a dose of medi- cation through his/her inhaler, the Bluetooth sensor records the date and time of the inhaler use and transmits the data to the  patient’s  smartphone.    For patients  who  do  not  own  a smartphone, patients can use a wireless hub for data trans- mission.  The collected data travels in an encrypted fashion to the secure Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)-compliant servers at Propeller Health.  If a transmitting device is unavailable at the time of event, the We obtained the data from a real-world study conducted in a mid-size  city  in  the  United  States  from  March  2014  to December 2017 using our test bed.  The study has an open enrollment procedure, which means that asthma patients can begin  and  end  their  participation  anytime  during  the  test period.  There were 696 participants in total.  However, we only used 326 patients in our study, excluding 370 patients because of incomplete demographic data or short participation periods (shorter than two weeks).  A list of variables is shown in Table 2 with their summary statistics. The data contains information about the patients’ sex, age, and race, which are the most commonly used demographic variables in asthma research (William et al. 2011).  The parti- cipants  took  the  asthma  control  test  (ACT)  at  the  time  of enrollment.  The ACT score reflects the initial asthma control level of each patient, and has been validated for use with sub- jects at least 12 years of age (Schatz et al. 2006).  The ACT score ranges from 5 to 25 for adults.  Following the literature, 290 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 2.  Illustration of the Smart Asthma Management System Table 2.  List of Variables in the SAM Data Category Variable Demographic information Patient’s asthma-related information Environmental factors Other important variables Age Sex Race Asthma control test (ACT)-based asthma control level Temperature (°F) Wind speed (meter/s) Humidity (%) Visibility (mile) PM2.5 (microgram/m3) Event timestamp Participation period Summary Statistic Mean:  41.733 (SD:  12.865) Male:  103 patients Female:  223 patients White/Caucasian:  224 patients African American:  59 patients Other Race:  43 patients Mean:  13.917 (SD:  3.945) Mean:  61.328 (SD:  17.082) Mean:  6.602 (SD:  4.796) Mean:  65.070 (SD:  18.020) Mean:  9.284 (SD:  1.738) Mean:  9.510 (SD:  4.616) Mean:  0.23 use/day (SD:  1.0615) Mean:  454.092 days (SD:  354.728) we categorized participants into two groups based on their ACT scores (controlled and uncontrolled).  The patients with ACT scores greater than 19 were categorized as controlled asthma patients (Nathan et al. 2004; Reddel et al. 2009).  In terms of environmental factors, we have temperature, wind speed, humidity, visibility, and fine particulate air pollution (PM2.5).    The  PM2.5  measures  particulate  matter  with  a diameter of # 2.5 microns.  Temperature, humidity, and air pollution  (and  visibility  that  is  closely  related  to  the  air pollution) are significant asthma triggers (Vernon et al. 2012).  Also, wind speed affects the spread of pollen, which is asso- ciated with asthmatic symptoms (Knox 1993).  The sensor itself cannot measure the environmental data, so we acquired the data from public data repositories.  We obtained tempera- ture,  humidity,  and  wind  speed  data  from  the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Quality Controlled Local Climatological Data Repository, and collected the PM2.5 data from the Environmental Protection Agency Air Quality System.  The SAM system automatically assigned all environ- mental data to each medication use event from the monitoring station closest to the geographic location of the event. There are two aspects about the data set that need to be men- tioned.  First, the sensors periodically send a heartbeat signal to  indicate  that  the  Bluetooth  sensor  is  active  and  alive.  Because the battery embedded in the Bluetooth sensor can last more than a year without a charge, we have not noticed any missing data caused by a dead sensor.  Second, the SAM data is not a balanced data set.  Among 326 participants used in our study, about 68% were female.  We had no protocol to balance the number of participants for each gender at the time of enrollment.  However, asthma is known to have a higher prevalence  in  women  than  in  men  in  adulthood  (Postma 2007); hence, it is natural to have more female patients than MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 291 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management male.  Another imbalance is observed in race of the parti- cipants among which 68.7% were White/Caucasian because the city from which the data were collected is not a place with diverse ethnicity (88% White) according to the United States Census Bureau (2016).  The initial asthma control level of the participants is also skewed.  About 77% of the participants had well-controlled asthma based on ACT scores.  This par- tially explains why we observe few rescue inhaler uses in the SAM data. Step 1:  Data Transformation The proposed data analytics framework in our study starts from processing the SAM data (i.e., transforming the longi- tudinal data into a grid format).  The SAM data show a unique correlation structure that is defined by the daily routines of patients.  The grid transformation performed on the data set enables us to visualize and properly model the correlation structure, which could be challenging to do with data in its original time-series format.  During the transformation, we arranged the SAM data into 24 × 7 grids (24 hours a day, 7 days a week).  The participation periods for each patient were denoted by mi (i.e., the number of weeks that patient i parti- cipated  in  the  study).    We  then  merged  mi  grids  for  each patient i.  We used the one-hour time window in our study because, in the asthma literature, the number of puffs taken within an hour has been widely used as an observational unit in various data analysis (Bender et al. 1998).  However, if necessary, the time window can be adjusted.  Figure 3 illus- trates the data transformation process. After  the  transformation,  we  can  see  the  grid  distribution based on the number of inhaler uses as in Figure 4.  In Figure 4, we categorized the patients into two groups based on their ACT scores as explained in the data description section.  For patients whose asthma is well controlled, it is very rare to see a grid with more than one inhaler use (less than 2%).  On the other hand, about 25% of grids have multiple inhaler uses for the poorly controlled asthma patients. Step 2:  Statistical Modeling The fundamental assumption of the GLMM-GQP is that the number of inhaler uses (yik) for an individual patient i in a specific day-time grid k follows a quasi-Poisson distribution as yik ~ QuasiPoisson(ëik, èik) where E(yik) = ëik and Var(yik) = èikëik where mean (intensity) of yik is denoted as ëik and the variance of yik is specified as èikëik.  A quasi-Poisson distribution is 292 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 defined by the first two moments, and it can address the issue of over-dispersion (i.e., E(yik) < Var(yik)) by including the dis- persion parameter èik.  In our model, we separately modeled the two parameters of a quasi-Poisson distribution (ëik and èik). Model Description Mean Model:  The mean model has two types of effects:  fixed and random.  Therefore, the structure of the proposed model  is  equivalent  to  the  GLMM.    The  mean  model  is defined as (1) the  reference),  ACT-based  asthma  control  for i = 1, …, 326 (patient ID) and k = 1, … 168 (grid index).  We considered sex (Malei = 1 for male patients and 0 for female patients), race (RaceOtheri = 1 for patients who iden- tified themselves as Hispanic, Asian, or Native American and RaceWhitei = 1 for White/Caucasian where African American is  level (ACTcontroli = 1 if the ACT score of patient i was smaller than  or equal  to 19  points  at  the  time  of enrollment),  and weekend indicator (Weekendk = 1 if a specific grid k belongs to  weekend).    We  have  coefficients  (fixed  effects)  â’s associated with each covariate.  Because individual patients have  different  participation  periods  (also  referred  to  as exposure), we included an offset variable log(mi).  For any Poisson-family  models,  including  an  offset  variable  is  a standard way for accommodating the difference in lengths of observation period (Agresti 2001). In addition to the fixed effects, the mean model includes ran- dom effects ui and zk.  The patient-level random effect ui is assumed to follow an identical normal distribution N(0, ó2 u) where ó2 u quantifies the patient-to-patient variability.  Due to the severe heterogeneity across the patients, having patient- level random effects is crucial for modeling the SAM data.  The grid-level random effects z = [z1 …z168]T follow a multi- variate  normal  distribution  as  z  ~  N(0,  ô(I  –  ñD)–1).  The variance among grids is denoted by ô and the corresponding correlation is quantified by ñ.  The matrix I is an identity matrix and  0 is a column vector with appropriate size (in our case,  168).    We  assume  that  the  correlation  exists  among some grids, and the 168 × 168 matrix D determines which grids should be correlated to each other.  The matrix D is defined as D = [dpq] where dpq = 1 if p  q and p, q 0 Øj. Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 3.  Illustration of the Data Transformation to Grid Format Figure 4.  Grid Distribution Based on the Number of Rescue Inhaler Uses The  set  of  correlated  grids  is  defined  as  for j = 1, …, 24; hence, each column vector Øj contains seven grids.  For instance, we have Ø1 = [1 25 49 73 92 121 145]T for j = 1 and the grid indices in Ø1 respectively represent 12:01 a.m. – 1:00 a.m. time windows from Monday to Sunday.  Therefore, we assign dpq = 1 to 42 elements (7 × 7 – 7 = 42) in D.  Similarly, for j = 2, we obtain Ø2 = [2 26 50 74 98 122 145]T where its elements represent 1:01 a.m. – 2:00 a.m. time windows from Monday to Sunday.  Eventually, among 28,224 (168² = 28,224) elements in D, 1,008 elements (42 × 24 = 1,008) would be 1.  In other words, we assume that the grids in the same one-hour windows are correlated and the conditional correlation between zk and zk', for k, k' 0 Øj is ñ, given the same for all other grids.  This formulation produces special dependence in the covariance as a function of the matrix D and a fixed unknown correlation parameter ñ (Wall 2004). We would like to note that our assumption on D has been validated in the asthma literature (Milgrom et al. 1996).  Fur- thermore, we found some supporting evidence in the SAM data as well.  Figure 5 shows a few example grids of four dif- ferent patients.  The highlighted cells are the one-hour time windows with three or more inhaler uses.  As shown in Figure 5, rescue inhaler usage patterns are positively correlated within the same one-hour window across different days of the week. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 293 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 5.  Examples of Correlated Rescue Inhaler Uses Within the Same One-Hour Windows Dispersion Model:  For a conventional quasi-Poisson regres- sion  model,  a  dispersion  parameter  è  is  directly  estimated from the data.  However, the GLMM-GQP defines a sub- model for the dispersion parameter èik.  We assumed that the dispersion parameter can be modeled by several key environ- mental factors that are known to be associated with asthma as  (2) The dispersion model includes temperature, humidity, wind speed, visibility, and air pollutant level measured by PM2.5.  A  dedicated  model  for  the  dispersion  parameter  in  the GLMM-GQP defines a structure on variability (e.g., the lower temperature increases the variability of the inhaler usage).  In asthma literature, the associations between asthma symptoms and the environmental factors in (2) have been already inves- tigated (Knox 1993; Vernon et al. 2012).  However, the rela- tionships  between  the  environmental  factors  and  asthma symptoms  have  been  studied  mainly  in  epidemiological settings where data were aggregated to a population level so that the individual patient variability could be suppressed or controlled (Su et al. 2017).  When the unit of analysis is at the individual patient level, the impact of the same environmental factor may significantly vary among patients because of the difference in the levels of sensitivity to a specific environ- mental  asthma  trigger  across  patients  (Janssens  and  Ritz 2013).  Therefore, for an analysis focusing on personalized asthma  management  at  the  individual  patient  level,  it  is suggested that the environmental factors are more likely to have  a  substantial  impact  on  the  variability  than  on  the intensity of rescue inhaler usage (Su et al. 2017).  Following the  literature,  we  included  environmental  factors  in  the dispersion model rather than in the mean model. The proposed GLMM-GQP uses a quasi-Poisson distribution.  In the literature, researchers have often used not only a quasi- Poisson distribution but also a negative binomial distribution 294 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 for addressing the over-dispersion issue of count data (Ver Hoef and Boveng 2007).  The reason we take quasi-Poisson over negative binomial is for the convenience in modeling the dispersion parameter.  The idea of separately modeling the dispersion is borrowed from the DGLM.  Existing studies have primarily used the DGLM with the quasi-Poisson distri- bution due to the simple linear relationship between the mean and  dispersion  parameter of  the  quasi-Poisson  distribution (Smyth  and  Jorgensen  2002;  Smyth  and  Verbyla  1999).  Based on that reason, we chose the quasi-Poisson distribution over negative binomial distribution. Inference Results:  The overall inference follows the guide- line of the two-step procedure based on the h-likelihood (Lee and Nelder 1996; Lee et al. 2006).  Because a quasi-Poisson distribution does not have a probability function, we used the iteratively  weighted  least-square  algorithm  based  on  the double extended quasi-likelihood (Lee and Nelder 2001) to estimate  the  parameters  in  the  mean  model.    Then,  the adjusted profile likelihood is used to estimate the parameters in the dispersion model (Ronnegard et al. 2010).  To estimate parameters  for  the  grid-level  random  effects,  we  used  the Eigen decomposition algorithm on the precision matrix (Alam et al. 2015).  We did the inference in R (R Core Team 2016) with  the  hglm  package  (Ronnegard  et  al.  2010)  and  lme4 package (Bates et al. 2015).  The estimation results are sum- marized in Table 3. In the mean model, sex and ACT-based asthma control level have shown statistical significance (p = 0.034 and p < 0.001, respectively).  The inference results on the dispersion model agree with the clinical intuitions in the asthma literature.  The variability  of  rescue  inhaler  uses  increases  as  temperature decreases.  Humidity, PM2.5, and wind speed contribute to increased variability.  We observed a noticeable patient-to- patient variability (óˆu 2 = 2.284).  The grid-to-grid variance ô is estimated as 0.05 and the conditional correlation coefficient ñ is estimated as 0.15. Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Table 3.  Inference Results Mean Model Parameter Intercept (â0) Sex=Male (â1) Age (â2) Race=Other (â3) Race=White (â4) Not Controlled Asthma (â5) Weekend (â6) Dispersion Model Estimate -5.8372  0.3952 -0.0100 -0.1639 0.0632 1.1192  0.0038 SE 0.4112 0.1864 0.0067 0.3124 0.2310 0.2499 0.0375 Parameter Intercept (ã0) Temperature (ã1) PM2.5 (ã2) Humidity (ã3) Visibility (ã4) Wind Speed (ã5) Estimate -7.6649 -0.0051 0.2811 0.0185 0.3158 0.1478 SE 0.6985 0.0011 0.0083 0.0029 0.0522 0.0117 Step 3:  Out-of-Pattern Inhaler Usage Detection The  goal  of  analyzing  the  SAM  data  in  our  study  was  to detect out-of-pattern (unusual) inhaler usage for individual asthma patients.  Because of the strong association between current asthma control level and future risk of exacerbation (Bateman et al. 2010), our data analytics framework can help with identifying potential exacerbations in the future.  The out-of-pattern inhaler usage detection method is based on the individualized probability grid that can be established by the GLMM-GQP.  The individualized probability grid is a per- sonal inhaler usage prediction map that shows the likelihood of a patient using his/her rescue inhaler.  Each grid k for a patient i has its estimated probability   where high probability indicates that, for a specific patient i, there is a high chance of using a rescue inhaler.  By referring to this grid,  the  SAM  system  can  identify  if  the  patient’s  inhaler usage was out of his/her typical usage pattern.  To compute the probability  , we estimated the patient-level random effects ui as uˆ i = E(ui|y).  High and positive values of uˆ i indicate that the patient i tends to use an inhaler more often than  expected.    Similarly,  the  grid-level  random  effects  zk were  estimated  by  ˆzk  =  E(zk|y).    The  special  correlation structure assumed for the distribution of the grid-level random effects should have impact on E(zk|y).  With all random effects computed for  the ith patient and the estimates  of the fixed  from equation (1) and the one- effects  week  is  computed  as ,  subtracting  the  offset  from  the original log-intensity estimate (normalizing the difference in the participation periods).  A quasi-Poisson distribution does not  have  a  probability  distribution  function;  hence  we   approximately  from  a  negative computed  ’s, we can obtain  intensity  denoted  by      is binomial  distribution.    The  approximated  .  A quasi-Poisson random variable denoted by  has  a  variance  of  èë,  while  a  negative  binomial  random variable has the variance of ë + ë2/N where N  is the over- dispersion parameter.  If we set è = 1 + ë/N , then the variance of the negative binomial random variable becomes èë because ë + ë2/N  = ë(1 + ë/N).  By setting N , we get ik =  N ik,  . We classified the 168 grids into two categories based on the predicted probability of inhaler use:  in-pattern and out-of- pattern grids.  The in-pattern grids have  where ä is a decision threshold that can be freely specified by the care provider.  We assumed that observing an inhaler use in a grid k for patient i is not alarming if his/her predicted probability of using an inhaler is higher than ä (in-pattern).  In contrast, if an inhaler use is observed in one of the out-of- pattern grids, the SAM system should raise a flag to inform both the practitioner and patient so that a closer investigation can be performed.  Figure 6 illustrates the overall structure of the data analytics framework for detecting the out-of-pattern rescue inhaler usage. Performance Evaluation To demonstrate the satisfactory performance of the proposed analytics  framework  based  on  the  GLMM-GQP,  we  con- ducted a series of performance evaluations.  We considered various  benchmark  methods  such  as  the  conventional GLMMs, mixed effects logistic regression model, SVM, and CG-HMM.  The CG-HMM is a recently developed statistical model tailored to asthma management (Son et al. 2017).  The methods listed above potentially can be used for the out-of- MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 295 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 6.  Illustration of the Out-of-Pattern Detection Algorithm pattern  inhaler  usage  detection  instead  of  the  proposed GLMM-GQP.  Therefore, in this section, we compare their performance and provide in-depth discussion. Design of the Evaluation Algorithm and Performance Measure In design science research on data analytics, one of the popu- larly used was of contucting a performance evaluation is the hold-out  approach  (Shmueli  and  Koppius  2011).    This approach excludes a set of observations prior to model fitting and uses the excluded data points to test the performance of the model later.  The performance evaluation process is illus- trated in Figure 7. In the performance evaluation algorithm, we considered two scenarios.  First, after constructing the individualized proba- bility grid for patient i, we replaced the observations in the (k+1)th  week  of  patient  i  with  the  data  from  a  randomly selected  patient j  (j    i).   Then, we treated the artificially replaced observations as newly collected data of the (k+1)th week for patient i.  It should be noted that the data used for model fitting only had k weeks amount of data from patient i.  The inhaler usage data is coming from a different patient j; hence, the detection method should be able to identify the abnormality in the inhaler usage  pattern.  This scenario  is denoted as true positive (TP) case.  If the detection method failed to raise a flag, we record this result as false negative (FN) which is also referred as misdetection. In the second scenario, we use the data from the i th patient in the (k+1)th week for testing.  Because there was no change in the  inhaler  usage  data,  the  detection  method  should  not 296 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 generate an alarm.  This is a true negative (TN) case.  If a wrong alarm was generated, we recorded this result as a false alarm, which is denoted as false positive (FP).  We conducted the performance evaluation for various k values:  k = 1, 4, 8, 12, and mi – 1 controlling the amount of data provided to the analytics  methods.    We  excluded  the  patients  who  were monitored  shorter  than  15  weeks  from  the  pool  of  testing patients to ensure mi – 1 $ 12.  Considering the stochastic nature  of  the  performance  evaluation,  we  repeated  the evaluation 100 times for each pair of {i, k}. We  used  the  area  under  the  curve  (AUC)  as  our  primary performance measure.  The curve here represents the receiver operating  characteristics  (ROC)  curve,  which  shows  the relationship between the TP and TN rates.  The performance of  the  out-of-pattern  detection  methods  depends  on  the decision threshold ä; hence, it is reasonable to use the AUC so that we can see the overall performance of each method considering wide range of possible ä values.  The AUC has a range  between  0.5  and  1.    When  the  perfect  detection  is achieved, AUC should have a value of 1, and 0.5 is equivalent to the performance  of random guess.   The AUC  has been widely  used  for  evaluating  the  performance  of  analytics methods (Lin et al. 2017) because it considers the trade-off between two types of error:  false alarm and misdetection (Bardhan et al. 2014). Benchmark Methods In total, we considered six benchmark methods in the perfor- mance evaluation.  The proposed GLMM-GQP belongs to the GLMM-family.  Therefore, we first considered two conven- tional GLMMs based on Poisson (GLMM-P) and negative Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Figure 7.  Illustration of the Performance Evaluation Algorithm Figure 8.  Analytics Methods Considered in the Performance Comparison binomial  (GLMM-NB)  distributions.    Also,  we  defined  a simplified GLMM-GQP (GLMM-GQPS) without assuming the CAR model for specifying the special correlation structure among grids.  The GLMM-GQPS can be fitted to the data easier than the original GLMM-GQP because the grid-level random  effects  are  simply  assumed  to  follow  the  typical Gaussian distribution.  We denoted those four methods jointly as GLMM-family.  Besides the GLMM-family methods, there were other models that needed to be considered.  In the out- of-pattern detection analytics framework, the mixed effects logistic  regression  model  can  replace  the  GLMM-family models.  We can obtain the individualized probability grid based on the fitted logistic regression model following the same procedure described earlier.  One key difference is that we used the hourly usage data, not the transformed data, to ensure a binary response (use/no-use).  For the hourly usage data, we can use the support vector machine (SVM) as well.  We can train the SVM based on the hourly usage data of a specific  individual  patient  and  perform  the  out-of-pattern usage detection.  Because the observations in the SAM data are  not  labeled,  we  used  the  SVM-based  outlier  (novelty) detection method (Bennett and Campbell 2000).  Finally, we included  the  CG-HMM  which  is  a  specifically  designed model for monitoring and assessing asthma control (Son et al. 2017).  The CG-HMM uses the number of inhaler usage data collected on a daily basis.  Therefore, the SAM data need to be converted into daily data (number of inhaler uses per day) prior to model fitting.  Then, the fitted CG-HMM can detect the degradation of the asthma control level.  Figure 8 sum- marizes the differences among the seven methods included in our comparative performance evaluation.  All methods were implemented  R  (R  Core  Team  2016).    The  lme4  package (Bates et al. 2015) was used for the GLMM-P, GLMM-NB, and mixed effects logistic regression model.  The SVM-based outlier  detection  algorithm  was  implemented  in  libsvm package (Chang and Lin 2011). MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 297 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Table 4.  AUC Comparison Models GLMM-GQP GLMM- GQPS GLMM-P GLMM-NB Logistic Reg. SVM CG-HMM 1 Week 0.5754 0.5897 0.5397 0.5758 0.6088 0.5554 0.5000 Amount of Data from a Testing Patient Used for Model Fitting (k) 4 Weeks 0.8106 0.7807 0.6387 0.6930 0.6089 0.5664 0.5000 8 Weeks 0.8232 0.7949 0.6450 0.6969 0.6099 0.6645 0.5006 12 Weeks 0.8517 0.8190 0.6600 0.7260 0.6195 0.6650 0.5039 Almost All 0.8543 0.8257 0.6734 0.7409 0.6298 0.6736 0.5111 Performance Evaluation Results Table 4 summarizes the AUCs for the proposed GLMM-GQP and  benchmark  methods.    The  performance  of  the  out-of- pattern  inhaler  usage  detection  heavily  depends  on  the accuracy of inference (model fitting); hence, we used five different k values controlling the amount of data provided to the models.  When we provide more data collected from the testing patient, the AUC increases for all seven methods.  The right-most column in Table 4 shows the AUCs when we pro- vide every data point of the testing patient i except for the last week (mi) and the GLMM-GQP shows the best performance.  We can see that the GLMM-GQP outperforms its simplified version (GLMM-GQPS), and this result suggests that con- sidering  the  special  correlation  structure  among  grids  can contribute to the performance improvement. In general, the GLMM-GQP shows the better performance than  the  benchmark  methods  except  for  the  extreme  case (k=1).  Suppose a new patient is enrolled to the SAM program and he/she has been monitored for only a week (k=1).  In that case,  the  individualized  probability  grid  estimated  by  the GLMM-GQP for the new patient may not be accurate.  How- ever, this issue exists for not only the GLMM-GQP but also for every data-driven method.  In Table 4, all methods show unsatisfactory detection performance with a week’s worth of data.  The GLMM-GQP performs worse than the GLMM- GQPS, GLMM-NB, and logistic regression.  This intuitively makes sense because the model structure of the GLMM-GQP is  more  complex  than  most  of  the  benchmark  methods. Having a flexible model structure often demands more data.  However, after acquiring about a month amount of data (k=4), the  performance  of  the  GLMM-GQP  becomes  acceptable. The GLMM-family methods have shown a consistent trend throughout the analysis.  The GLMM-GQPS performs slightly worse than the GLMM-GQP but better than the conventional GLMMs (GLMM-P and GLMM-NB).  The GLMM-NB out- performs the GLMM-P  because,  unlike the GLMM-P, the 298 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 GLMM-NB  can  address  the  over-dispersion  issue  of  the inhaler usage data. The logistic regression model shows AUC around 0.6 with k=1 and the AUC minimally increases even if we provide more data.  The SVM achieves AUC comparable to the one for GLMM-P if we have sufficient data of the testing patient.  It should be noted that the both logistic regression and SVM were fitted on the hourly usage data without converting them into a grid format.  When we do not transform the data into a grid format, the data contain excessive cases of zero inhaler use.  Because the inhaler use does not occur frequently, both the logistic regression and SVM become very sensitive  to every single inhaler use.  In that sense, both logistic regres- sion and SVM are similar to the GLMM-P, which has limited capability of modeling rare events.  Thus, observing com- parable AUCs of the logistic regression, SVM, and GLMM-P is understandable.  The CG-HMM performed the worst in our performance evaluation.  The CG-HMM is designed to detect the degradation in asthma control level based on the number of inhaler uses per day.  The CG-HMM is a powerful tool for tracing the increasing/decreasing trend in number of rescue inhaler uses (Son et al. 2017).  However, it may not be able to detect  the  unusual  inhaler  usage  which  deviates  from  the normal usage pattern if the number of inhaler uses per day has not shown significant change across time. The performance of the benchmark methods can be further investigated by their average false alarm and misdetection rates in Figure 9(a).  As expected, the CG-HMM shows very high  misdetection  rate  because  it  cannot  detect  anything unless  there  was  a  significant  increase  in  the  number  of inhaler uses per day.  On the other hand, the logistic regres- sion and SVM yield very low misdetection rate but high false alarm rate due to their high sensitivity.  The GLMM-family models perform comparably in terms of false alarm rate but the conventional GLMMs (GLMM-NB and GLMM-P) show higher misdetection rate compared to the GLMM-GQP.  We Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management (a)  Average False Alarm and Misdetection Rates (b)  Average Time-To-Alert Figure 9.  Model Comparison Based on False Alarm and Misdetection can strengthen our findings by comparing the average time-to- alert shown in Figure 9(b).  The ideal time-to-alert should be 1  hour  because  it  is  computed  for  the  cases  where  the detection method must identify unusual inhaler usage.  The logistic regression and SVM have short time-to-alert whereas the CG-HMM rarely raises a flag.  In terms of time-to-alert, the SVM and logistic regression seem to be plausible but, as discussed earlier, their excessive sensitivity causes too many false alarms.  The GLMM-P and GLMM-NB have slower time-to-alert (about 49 hours) than the GLMM-GQP (about 41 hours).  This suggests that the conventional GLMMs are less  sensitive  and  exhibit  more  misdetections  than  the GLMM-GQP as shown in Figure 9(a). Discussion and Conclusion Summary of Contribution Our  study  opens  a  new  research  direction  in  data-driven asthma management.  The innovations in HIS are fueling a paradigm shift from traditional trial-based healthcare studies to real-time data-driven healthcare analytics.  This innovation can  potentially  transform  the  current  practice  of  chronic disease management into smart and connected chronic care.  The  contributions  of  our  study  are  three-fold.    First,  for asthma management, our study proposes a new approach that complements  conventional  guideline-based  asthma  self- management.  Despite the great potential of the SAM system, researchers  so  far  have  focused  mainly  on  examining  the relationship between the SAM system and improvement in clinical outcomes.  The data analytics framework developed in this study shows a way to utilize the advanced HIS for transforming  the  reactive  asthma  care  practice  into  data- driven and patient-centered asthma management.  From the methodological perspective, we developed the GLMM-GQP, which  integrates  several  statistical  models  into  a  unified structure.  The GLMM-GQP provides a dedicated sub-model for the dispersion parameter so that the heterogeneous impact of environmental asthma triggers on inhaler usage behavior can be properly modeled.  Also, the flexible correlation struc- ture for the random effects allows the model to reflect the repetitive daily routine of individual patients.  Furthermore, our  analytics  framework  performs  a  rigorous  model-based abnormality  detection  and  we  have  shown  its  promising performance  through  the  comparison  study  with  several benchmark methods.  Finally, our study also makes contri- butions to the IS knowledge base.  The SAM platform intro- duced in this paper further extends the definition of HIS.  It provides a good example of how HIS can innovate the current practice of chronic disease management.  We also emphasized the importance of developing an IT solution artifact tailored to  the  new  type  of  HIS  considering  the  disease-specific characteristics.  In our study, the data analytics methods that have limited capability for addressing key features of asthma management have shown worse performance than the pro- posed method specifically designed for the SAM platform.  Overall, our study is a good example of exaptation design science research.  We proposed a design principle that leads to a solution for a new problem by integrating and improving prior  design  knowledge.    Existing  analytics  methods  have been significantly extended to address the new challenges that were not present in the traditional quantitative asthma studies based on clinical trials. Our study provides meaningful practical implications as well.  For care providers, the IT artifact developed in our study can help  with  optimizing  their  resource  utilization.    Medical experts are a highly trained and expensive resource.  Their MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 299 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management time  should  not  be  wasted  by  monitoring  patients’  rescue inhaler usage manually.  If data analytics methods could auto- matically  extract  the  most  critical  signs  from  the  remote patient monitoring data, healthcare professionals could make a personalized therapeutic decision with less time and effort.  For asthma patients, our analytics method serves as an asthma self-management  tool.    Providing  an  accessible  HIS  to patients is crucial but not sufficient.  The potential of the HIS in terms of improving the quality of life of patients can be fully  realized  only  if  the  HIS  is  coupled  with  a  well- established analytics method.  Therefore, we believe that our study takes a critical step closer to realizing how HIS and analytics  can  collectively  contribute  to  achieve  better healthcare practice. Guidelines for IS Researchers and Practitioners The proposed analytics framework based on the GLMM-GQP can  detect  an  event  that  is  out  of  its  usual  pattern.    We developed the method in the context of asthma management HIS, but the application is not limited only to asthma care.  The  out-of-pattern  detection  method  is  applicable  to  any healthcare applications if a few requirements, listed below, are satisfied: • • • • A reliable data colleting/transmitting device that provides accurate event times Additional biomarkers (covariates) associated with the health-related event of interest Sufficient  amount  of  data  collected  from  the  specific target patient Patient-specific behavioral knowledge that is potentially related to the event patterns First, the sensors or any type of data collecting device imple- mented in the monitoring system should be able to provide accurate event times and should guarantee no information loss during data transactions.  In other words, the system should have access to the detailed information about every single event rather than summary data such as average blood pres- sure  for  each  day,  because  summary  data  may  not  be sufficient for characterizing the patterns of event occurrence.  Second, the data should contain meaningful biomarkers that are associated with the clinical event of interest.  In this study, we considered several demographic and environmental factors because they are closely related to the rescue inhaler usage.  Third,  in  the  spirit  of  personalized  medicine,  it  is  recom- mended to have a sufficient amount of data from the target patient.  The progression of a medical condition over time varies across patients.  Thus, to provide personalized interven- tion,  practitioners  should  use  the  analytics  method  after 300 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 accumulating sufficient data collected from the specific target patient.    Based  on  our  findings,  most  of  the  data-driven methods should perform reasonably well if the patient has been monitored at least a month.  Finally, it is important to understand the potential correlation structure among events.  Following the asthma literature, we assumed that the same one-hour windows have a positive correlation.  However, this assumption may not be valid for other healthcare applications.  Thus,  the  correlation  structure  needs  to  be  specified  ade- quately  for  managing  the  specific  medical  condition.    As shown in this study, considering the patient-specific infor- mation has a significant potential to improve the performance of the detection method. The GLMM-GQP can be directly converted into a working IT artifact.  However, we would like to note that there are several aspects that need to be studied before implementing the IT artifact in clinical practice.  For instance, providing alerts to patients or practitioners needs to be done cautiously.  On one hand, an excessive number of alerts triggers alert fatigue.  On the other hand, data-driven healthcare diagnostic tools that show a high misdetection rate may encounter a legal liability issue.  Also, it is very challenging to foresee how patients might respond to alerts generated by the HIS because alert compliance depends on various factors.  In addition, at the moment, it is not clear how to share the cost of the HIS opti- mally among the beneficiaries (e.g., hospitals, patients, and insurers).  Addressing the issues listed above is crucial for ensuring successful implementation of our solution artifact in clinical practice. Limitations and Future Research The major limitation of our study comes from the nature of our test bed.  The SAM data contains many useful variables including demographics of the participants and environmental factors.  However, because asthma is a complex respiratory chronic condition, the list may not be comprehensive enough.  One way to address this issue is to integrate the data collected by the SAM system with EHRs.  In this way, we obtain full access to the detailed medical records of individual patients in addition to the continuously monitored rescue inhaler usage logs.  Currently, integration between the SAM data and EHRs is under development for future research.  Another limitation is that the data set we used in our study was collected from a certain geographical region.  As for all data-driven research, our study heavily depends on the specific data set that we have collected from our research test bed.  Therefore, we plan to  investigate  a  data  set  collected  from  a  different  geo- graphical region with a different set of participants to further validate the effectiveness of the analytics method proposed in this paper.  In addition, we plan to extend our study in the future by including patients diagnosed with chronic obstruc- tive pulmonary disease (COPD).  COPD is another prevalent respiratory  chronic  disease  and  COPD  patients  also  use  a personal inhaler to administer a dose of their rescue medi- cation.  Therefore, we believe the solution artifact developed in the current study has great potential in COPD management. Acknowledgments We thank the editors and anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments.  Also, the comments received at the 2018 MIS Quarterly Workshop (Naveen Jindal School of Management, University of Texas-Dallas)  were very helpful  in improving the  quality of the paper.  This research would have been very difficult without valu- able feedback from Dr. Meredith Barrett at Propeller Health, Dr. Guangquan  (Jason)  Su  at  University  of  California–Berkeley (Division  of  Environmental  Health  Sciences,  School  of  Public Health),  and  Dr.  Yeongin  Kim  at  Virginia  Commonwealth  Uni- versity (Department of Information Systems, School of Business). Finally,  we  thank  Sunny  Rosen,  Communications  Specialist  at Alfred  Lerner  College  of  Business  &  Economics  (University  of Delaware), for editing the manuscript.  This research is partially sup- ported by the University of Delaware General University Research (GUR)  grant  and  National  Science  Foundation  (NSF)  grant #1343969. References Agarwal, R., Gao, G., DesRoches, C., and Jha, A. K.  2010.  “The Digital Transformation of Healthcare:  Current Status and the Road Ahead,” Information Systems Research (21:4), pp. 796-809. Agresti, A.  2001.  Categorical Data Analysis, New York:  Wiley. Ahmed,  S.,  Ernst,  P.,  Bartlett,  S.  J.,  Valois,  M-F.,  Zaihra,  T., Pare, G., Grad, R., Eilayyan, O., Perreault, R., and Tamblym, R.  2016.    “The  Effectiveness  of  Web-Based  Asthma  Self- Management System, My Asthma Portal (MAP):  A Pilot Ran- domized Controlled Trial,” Journal of Medical Internet Research (18:12), pp. e313. Alam, M., Rönnegård, L., and Shen, X.  2015.  “Fitting Conditional and Simultaneous Autoregressive Spatial Models in hglm,” The R Journal (7:2), pp. 5-18. Anderson, S. D., Caillaud, C., and Brennan, J. D.  2006.  “Agonists and Exercise-Induced Asthma,” Clinical Reviews in Allergy & Immunology (31:2-3), pp. 163-180. Backonja, U., Kim, K., Casper, G. R., Patton, T., Ramly, E., and Brennan, P. F.  2012.  “Observations of Daily Living:  Putting the ‘Personal’ in Personal Health Records,” in Proceedings of the 11th International Congress on Nursing Informatics, June 23-27, 2012, Montreal, Canada. Bardhan,  I.,  Oh,  J.  C.,  Zheng,  Z.  E.,  and  Kirksey,  K.    2015.  “Predictive Analytics for Readmission of Patients with Conges- tive Heart Failure,” Information Systems Research (26:1), pp. 19-39. Barrett, M., Combs, V., Su, J. G., Henderson, K., Tuffli, M., and The  AIR  Louisville  Collaborative.    2017.    “AIR  Louisville:  Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Addressing  Asthma with  Technology,  Crowdsourcing,  Cross- Sector, and Policy,” Health Affairs (37:4), pp. 525-534. Bateman,  E.  D.,  Reddel,  H.  K.,  Eriksson,  G.,  Peterson,  S.,  Ost- lund,  R.,  Sears,  M.  R.,  Jenkins,  C.,  Humbert,  M.,  Buhl,  R., Harrison, T. W., Quirce, S., and O’Byrne, P. M.  2010.  “Overall Asthma Control:  The Relationship between Current Control and Future  Risk,”  Journal  of  Allergy  and  Clinical  Immunology (125:3), pp. 600-608. Bates, D., Maechler, M., Bolker, B., and Walker, S.  2015.  “Fitting Linear Mixed-Effects Models Using lme4,” Journal of Statistical Software (67:1), pp. 1-48. Bender,  B.,  Milgrom,  H.,  Rand,  C.,  and  Ackerson,  L.    1998.  “Psychological Factors Associated with Medication Nonadher- ence  in  Asthmatic  Children,”  Journal  of  Asthma  (35:4),  pp. 347-353. Bennett, K., and Campbell, C.  2000.  “Support Vector Machines:  Hype  or  Hallelujah?,”  ACM  SIGKDD Explorations (2:2),  pp. 1-13. Buntin, M. B., Burke, M. F., Hoaglin, M. C., and Blumenthal, D.  2011.    “The  Benefits  of  Health  Information  Technology:    A Review of the Recent Literature Shows Predominantly Positive Results,” Health Affairs (30:3), pp. 464-471. Carranza, R. J. R., Edwards, L., Lincourt, W., Dorinsky, P., and ZuWallack, R. L.  2004.  “The Relationship Between Health- Related Quality of Life, Lung Function and Daily Symptoms in Patients with Persistent Asthma.” Respiratory Medicine (98:12), pp. 1157-1165. Casper, G. R., and Brennan, P. F.  2013.  “Project HealthDesign:  A Preliminary Program-level Report,” in Proceedings of the AMIA Annual Symposium, American Medical Informatics Association, Washington, DC, pp. 192-199. CDC.    2016.    “Data,  Statistics,  and  Surveillance:    Asthma  Sur- veillance  Data,”  National  Center  for  Environmental  Health,  Center for Disease Control and Prevention (https://www.cdc.gov/ asthma/most_recent_data.htm). Chan,  A.  H.  Y.,  Harrsion,  J.,  Black,  P.  N.,  Mitchell,  E.  A.,  and Foster, J. M.  2015.  “Using Electronic Monitoring Devices to Measure Inhaler Adherence:  A Practical Guide for Clinicians,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology:  In Practice (3:3), pp. 335-349. Chang,  C-C.,  and  Lin,  C-J.    2011.    “LIBSVM:    A  Library  for Support  Vector  Machines,”  ACM  Transactions  on  Intelligent Systems and Technology (2:3), pp. 27:1-27:27. Clayton, D., and Kaldor, J.  1987.  “Empirical Bayes Estimates of Age Standardized Relative Risks for Use in Disease Mapping,” Biometrics (43), pp. 671-681. Combescure, C., Chanez, P., Saint-Pierre, P., Daures, J. P., Proud- hon, H., and Godard, P.  2003.  “Assessment of Variations in Control of Asthma Over Time,” European Respiratory Journal (22), pp. 298-304. Cressie,  N. A. C.  1993.  Statistics  for Spatial  Data (Rev.  Ed.), Chichester, UK:  Wiley. Fichman, R. G., Kohli, R., and Krishnan, R.  2011.  “The Role of Information Systems in Healthcare:  Current Research and Future Trends,” Information Systems Research (22:3), pp. 419-428. Gregor,  S.,  and  Hevner,  A.    2013.    “Positioning  and  Presenting Design Science Research for Maximum Impact,” MIS Quarterly (37:2), pp. 337-355. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 301 Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Huckvale, K., Morrison, C., Ouyang, J., Ghaghda, A., and Car, J.  2015.  “The Evolution of Mobile Apps for Asthma:  An Updated Systematic Assessment of Content and Tools,” BMC Medicine (13:58). Janssens, T., and Ritz, T.  2013.  “Perceived Triggers of Asthma:  Key  to  Symptom  Perception  and  Managemet,”  Clinical  & Experimental Allergy (43:9), pp. 1000-1008. Janssens, T., Verleden, G., Peuter, S. D., Diest, I. V., and Bergh O. V.  2009.  “Inaccurate Perception of Asthma Symptoms:  A Cognitive–Affective Framework and Implications  for Asthma Treatment,” Clinical Psychology Review (29), pp. 317-327. Kallinikos, J., and Tempini, N.  2014.  “Patient Data as Medical Facts:    Social  Media  Practices  as  a  Foundation  for  Medical Knowledge Creation,” Information Systems Research (25:4), pp. 817-833. Kane, G. C., and Labianca, G.  2011.  “IS Avoidance in Health-Care Groups:    A  Multilevel  Investigation,”  Information  Systems Research (22:3), pp. 504-522. Kim, M. S., Henderson, K. A., and Van Sickle, D.  2016.  “Using Connected Devices to Monitor Inhaler Use in the Real World,” Respiratory Drug Delivery (1), pp. 37-44. Knox, R. B.  1993.  “Grass Pollen, Thunderstorms, and Asthma,” Clinical & Experimental Allergy (23:5), pp. 354-359. Kohli, R., and Tan, S.  2016.  “Electronic Health Records:  How Can IS Researchers Contribute to Transforming Healthcare?,” MIS Quarterly (40:3), pp. 553-573. Kolodner, R. M., Cohn, S. P., and Friedman, C. P.  2008.  “Health Information Technology:  Strategic Initiatives, Real Progress,” Health Affairs (27:Supplement), pp. w391-w395. Lee, Y., and Nelder, J. A.  1996.  “Hierarchical Generalized Linear Models  (with  Discussions),”  Journal  of  the  Royal  Statistical Society, Series B (58), pp. 619-678. Lee, Y., and Nelder, J. A.  2001.  “Hierarchical Generalized Linear Models:  A Synthesis of Generalized Linear Models, Random Effect Models, and Structured Dispersions,” Biometrika (88), pp. 987-1006. Lee, Y., Nelder, J., and Pawitan, Y.  2006.  Generalized Linear Models with Random Effects:  Unified Analysis via H-Likelihood.  Boca Raton, FL:  Chapman & Hall. Leroy,  G.,  Chen,  H.,  and  Rindflesch,  T.  C.    2014.    “Smart  and Connected Health,” IEEE Intelligent Systems (29:3), pp. 2-5. Licskai, C. J., Sands, T. W., and Ferrone, M.  2013.  “Development and Pilot Testing of a Mobile Health Solution for Asthma Self- management:  Asthma Action Plan Smartphone Application Pilot Study,” Canadian Respiratory Journal (20:4), pp. 301-306. Lin, Y-K., Chen, H., Brown, R.  A., Li, S-H., and Yang, H-J.  2017.  “Healthcare Predictive Analytics for Risk Profiling in Chronic Care:  A Bayesian Multitask Learning Approach,” MIS Quarterly (41:2), pp. 473-495. Merchant, R. K., Inamdar, R., and Quade, R. C.  2016.  “Effective- ness  of  Population  Health  Management  Using  the  Propeller Health Asthma Platform:  A Randomized Clinical Trial,” Journal of  Allergy  and  Clinical  Immunology:    In  Practice  (4:3),  pp. 455-463. Milgrom, H., Bender, B., Ackerson, L., Bowry, P., Smith, B., and Rand,  C.    1996.    “Noncompliance  and  Treatment  Failure  in Children with Asthma,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immun- ology (98:6), pp. 1051-1057. 302 MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 Nathan, R. A., Sorkness, C. A., Kosinski, M., Schatz, M., Li, J. T., Marcus, P., Murray, J. J., and Pendergraft, T. B.  2004.  “Devel- opment of the Asthma Control Test:  A Survey for Assessing Asthma Control,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (113:1), pp. 59-65. NHLBI.    2007.    National  Asthma  Education  and  Prevention Program, Third Expert Panel on the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma.  Expert Panel Report 3:  Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,  Bethesda,  MD  (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/ NBK7232/). Nurmagambetov, T.,  Kuwahara,  R., and Garbe,  P.  2017.  “The Economic Burden of Asthma in the United States, 2008–2013,” Annals of the American Thoracic Society (15:3), pp. 348-356. Patel,  M.,  Pilcher,  J.,  Reddel,  H.  K.,  Qi,  V.,  Mackey,  B., Tranquilino,  T.,  Shaw,  D.,  Black,  P.,  Weatherall,  M.,  and Beasley, R.  2014.  “Predictors of Severe Exacerbations, Poor Asthma  Control,  and  -Agonist  Overuse  for  Patients  with Asthma,”  Journal  of  Allergy  and  Clinical  Immunology:    In Practice (2:6), pp. 751-758.e1. Pinheiro, J., and Bates, D.  2000.  Mixed-Effects Models in S and S- PLUS, New York:  Springer. Postma, D. S.  2007.  “Gender Differences in Asthma Development and  Progression,”  Gender  Medicine  (4:Supplement  2),  pp. S133-S146. R Core Team.  2016.  R:  A Language and Environment for Statis- tical Computing, Vienna, Austria:  R Foundation for Statistical Computing. Reddel,  H.  K.,  Taylor,  D.  R.,  Bateman,  E.  D.,  Boulet,  L.  P., Boushey,  H.  A.,  Busse,  W.  W.,  Casale,  T.  B.,  Chanez,  P., Enright, P. L., Gibson, P. G., de Jongste, J. C., Kerstjens, H. A., Lazarus, S. C., Levy, M. L., O’Byrne, P. M., Partridge, M. R., Pavord, I. D., Sears, M. R., Sterk, P. J., Stoloff, S. W., Sullivan, S. D., Szefler, S. J., Thomas, M. D., and Wenzel, S. E.  2009.  “An Official American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society  Statement:    Asthma  Control  and  Exacerbations:  Standardizing Endpoints for Clinical Asthma Trials and Clinical Practice,” American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine (180:1), pp. 59-99. Ronnegard, L., Shen, X., and Alam, M.  2010.  “hglm:  A Package for  Fitting  Hierarchical  Generalized  Linear  Models,”  The  R Journal (2:2), pp. 20-28. Saint-Pierre, P., Bourdin, A., Chanez, P., Daures, J., and Godard, P.  2006.  “Are Overweight Asthmatics More Difficult to Control?,” Allergy (61:1), pp. 79-84. Saint-Pierre, P., Combescure, C., Daurs, J., and Godard, P.  2003.  “The Analysis of Asthma Control under a Markov Assumption with  Use  of  Covariates,”  Statistics  in  Medicine  (22:24),  pp. 3755-3770. Schatz, M., Sorkness, C. A., Li, J. T., Marcus, P., Murray, J. J., Nathan, R. A., Kosinski, M., Pendergraft, T. B., and Jhingran, P.  2006.  “Asthma Control Test:  Reliability, Validity, and Respon- siveness in Patients Not Previously Followed by Asthma Specia- lists,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (117:3), pp. 549-556. Shmueli, G., and Koppius, O. R.  2011.  “Predictive Analytics in Information  Systems  Research,”  MIS  Quarterly  (35:3),  pp. 553-572. Smyth, G. K., and Jorgensen, B.  2002.  “Fitting Tweedie’s Com- pound  Poisson  Model  to  Insurance  Claims  Data:    Dispersion Modelling,” ASTIN Bulletin (32:1), pp. 143-157. Smyth,  G. K., and Verbyla,  A. P.  1999.  “Adjusted Likelihood Methods  for  Modeling  Dispersion  in  Generalized  Linear Models,” Environmetrics (10), pp. 695-709. Son, J., Brennan, P. F., and Zhou, S.  2016.  “Rescue Inhaler Usage Prediction in Smart Asthma Management Systems Using Joint Mixed  Effects  Logistic  Regression  Model,”  IIE  Transactions (48:4), pp. 333-346. Son, J., Brennan, P. F., and Zhou S.  2017.  “Correlated Gamma- Based Hidden Markov Model for the Smart Asthma Management Based on Rescue Inhaler Usage,” Statistics in Medicine (36), pp. 1619-1637. Su, J. G., Barrett, M. A., Henderson, K., Humblet, O., Smith, T., Sublett, J. W., Nesbitt, L., Hogg, C., Van Sickle, D., and Sublett, J. L.  2017.  “Feasibility of Deploying Inhaler Sensors to Identify the Impacts of Environmental Triggers and Built Environment Factors on Asthma Short-Acting Bronchodilator Use,” Environ- mental Health Perspective (125:2), pp. 254-261. United States Census Bureau.  2016.  Quick Facts Table:  Kentucky (https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/KY). Van Sickle, D., Meanner, M.  J., Barrett, M. A., and Marcus, J. E.  2013.  “Monitoring and Improving Compliance and Asthma Con- trol:  Mapping Inhaler Use for Feedback to Patients, Physicians, and Payers,” Respiratory Drug Delivery (1), pp. 119-130. Ver  Hoef,  J.  M.,  and  Boveng,  P.  L.    2007.    “Quasi-Poisson  vs.  Negative Binomial Regression:  How Should We Model Over- dispersed Count Data,” Ecology (88:11), pp. 2766-2772. Vernon, M. K., Wiklund, I., Bell, J. A., Dale, P., and Kennneth, R.  2012.  “What Do We Know about Asthma Triggers?  A Review of the Literature,” Journal of Asthma (49:10), pp. 991-998. Wall, M. M.  2004.  “A Close Look at the Spatial Structure Implied by the CAR and SAR Models,” Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference (121), pp. 311-324. Wedderburn,  R.  W.  M.    1974.    “Quasi-Likelihood  Functions, Generalized  Linear  Models,  and  the  Gauss-Newton Method,” Biometrika (61), pp. 439-447. William,  L.  K.,  Peterson,  E.  L.,  Well,  K.,  Ahmedani,  B.  K., Kumar,  R.,  Burchard,  E.  G.,  Chowdhry,  V.  K.,  Favro,  D., Lanfear,  D.  E.,  and  Pladevall,  M.    2011.    “Quantifying  the Proportion  of  Severe  Asthma  Exacerbations  Attributable  to Inhaled Corticosteroid Nonadherence,” Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (128:6), pp. 1185-1191. Son et al./A Framework for Smart Asthma Management Wu, A. C., Carpenter, J. F., and Himes, B. E.  2015.  “Mobile Health Applications  for  Asthma,”  Journal  of  Allergy  and  Clinical Immunology:  In Practice (3:3), pp. 446-448. Zein, J. G., and Erzurum, S. C.  2016.  “Asthma Is Different in Women,” Current Allergy and Asthma Reports (15) About the Authors Junbo Son received his B.S. in Industrial Systems and Information Engineering from the Korea University, South Korea, in 2010. He obtained both an M.S. in Statistics and a Ph.D. in Industrial and Systems  Engineering  from  University  of  Wisconsin–Madison  in 2015 and 2016, respectively.  He is currently an assistant professor in  the  Alfred  Lerner  College  of  Business  &  Economics  at  the University  of  Delaware.    His  research  interests  include  medical informatics for advanced healthcare systems, data-driven reliability engineering, and data analytics for solving complex problems in various business sectors. Patricia Flatley Brennan, RN, Ph.D., is the director of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), a component of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). NLM is the world’s largest biomedical library and the producer of digital information services used by scientists, health professionals, and members of the public worldwide.  Before joining the NIH, she was the the Lillian L. Moehlman Bascom Professor at the School of Nursing and College of Engineering, University of Wisconsin–Madison.  She received a Master of Science in nursing from the University of Pennsylvania and a Ph.D. in industrial engi- neering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Shiyu  Zhou  is  a  professor  in  the  Department  of  Industrial  and Systems Engineering at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.  He received  his  B.S.  degree  from  the  University  of  Science  and Technology of China in 1993, and his master’s degree and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan in 2000.  His research focuses on industrial  analytics  and  system  informatics  methodologies  for quality and productivity improvement and operation optimization. He has received numerous research awards and grants from various federal agencies.  He is currently a Fellow of Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and Society of Manufacturing Engineers. MIS Quarterly Vol. 44 No. 1/March 2020 303 Copyright of MIS Quarterly is the property of MIS Quarterly and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. 