RESEARCH NOTE ASSESSING THE DESIGN CHOICES FOR ONLINE RECOMMENDATION AGENTS FOR OLDER ADULTS: OLDER DOES NOT ALWAYS MEAN SIMPLER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY1 Maryam Ghasemaghaei DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, CANADA  {ghasemm@mcmaster.ca} Khaled Hassanein DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, CANADA  {hassank@mcmaster.ca} Izak Benbasat Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, CANADA  {izak.benbasat@ubc.ca} Grounded in the aging and complexity literature, this experimental study investigated the moderating role of individuals’ cognitive age on the impact of recommendation agent (RA) comprehensiveness (i.e., amount of detail involved in using an RA) on users’ perceptions regarding RA complexity and RA usefulness.  An experi- ment involving 140 online shoppers was conducted to understand the experiences of cognitively younger and older adults while using low or high comprehensiveness RAs designed for this study.  Results reveal the tension that exists for older adults when using highly comprehensive RAs, as they perceive them to be more complex but also more useful in providing recommended products.  The finding that cognitively older adults perceive high comprehensiveness RAs to be more useful compared to low comprehensiveness RAs provides a novel insight to the information systems literature, as it is contrary to the prevalent belief that “the older the user, the simpler the information technology should be.”  Theoretically, this study improves our understanding of how increasing levels of RA comprehensiveness differentially affects the perceptions of RA complexity and RA usefulness of users of different cognitive ages.  For practitioners, the results provide important guidelines about the kind of RA that is appropriate for consumers with different cognitive ages. Keywords:  Recommendation agents (RAs), interface design, cognitive age, RA comprehensiveness, perceived RA complexity, perceived RA usefulness  1 1Kai Lim was the accepting senior editor for this paper.  Heshan Sun served as the associate editor. The appendices for this paper are located in the “Online Supplements” section of MIS Quarterly’s website (https://misq.org). DOI:  10.25300/MISQ/2019/13947 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1, pp. 329-346/March 2019 329 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Introduction Recommendation agents (RAs) are software tools that support online shoppers by eliciting their preferences in products and consequently making appropriate recommendations that meet those  preferences  (Ansari  et  al.  2000;  Xiao  and  Benbasat 2007; Xu et al. 2014).  RAs play a critical role in reducing consumers’ information overload perceptions and supporting them in making better online shopping decisions (Xu et al. 2014).  Specifically, evidence from several studies shows that online  RAs  could  help  consumers  examine,  evaluate,  and compare products (e.g., Komiak and Benbasat 2006; Wang and Benbasat 2009; Zhu et al. 2016). Properly designed RAs are considered critical success factors for  online  vendors  who  are  confronted  with  increasingly competitive pressures (Kamis and Stohr 2006; Palanivel and Sivakumar 2010; Xu et al. 2014).  A poorly designed RA, on the other hand, could result in frustrated consumers (Gretzel and Fesenmaier 2006; Leavitt 2006), ultimately leading them to experience lower satisfaction with their online shopping experiences or to seek alternative channels to satisfy their needs (e.g., shopping offline) (Gourville and Soman 2005). This is especially the case for older adults, as they have limit- ations in their physical and cognitive abilities associated with the  natural  aging  process  (Kuo  et  al.  2012;  Loiacono  and Djamasbi 2013), and thus may face and perceive additional difficulties  in  using  inappropriately  designed  online  RAs (Carpenter and Yoon 2011; Ghasemaghaei et al. 2014; Kuo et al. 2012). Consequently, the main objective of this study is to under- stand the differences in the perceptions of older and younger adults in terms of the usefulness and complexity of RAs when using  RAs  of  different  designs,  namely,  in  the  amount  of detail provided by RAs in their interaction with users.  Al- though this question has not yet been studied, the prevalent belief that one might have based on the commonly offered views in the literature on aging and information technology (IT) use is likely to be “the older the person, the simpler the IT should be” (Charness and Boot 2009, p. 2014; see also Selwyn et al. 2003; Worden et al. 1997).  However, in this study, we leverage aging, cognitive complexity, and effort– accuracy theories, to advance an alternative view asserting that older adults might in some cases find more complex IT to be more useful.  Our empirical study explores the tension that exists for older adults when using highly comprehensive RAs as  they  perceive  them  to  be  more  complex  but  also  more useful. The study of the above objective is a novel one since most studies  involving  RAs  and  their  design  have  focused  on younger populations (e.g., university students) leading to a 330 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 lack of understanding of the older adults’ experience with using these important online decision aids (Kuo et al. 2012). The older adult population is rapidly increasing.  According to a United Nations report, whereas only 5.2% of the popula- tion was over 65 in the year 1950, this percentage is projected to rise to 15.9% by 2050, and to 27.5% by 2150 (Baecker et al. 2012).  Older adults are also the fastest growing segment of Internet users and they have a strong interest in making purchases online (Lian and Yen 2014).  According to a Pew Research  Center  report  (2015),  while  only  13%  of  older Americans (> 65 years) used the Internet in 2000, this per- centage increased to 38% in 2008 and 58% in 2015 and will continue to increase significantly in the years to come.  Thus, older adults are an important population segment  for  both Information Systems (IS) researchers and online retailers to consider.    However,  older  adults  have  been  neglected  for years by online retailers (Lian and Yen 2014).  As such, many older consumers are not satisfied with their online shopping experiences and they often give up before completing their purchasing transactions (Kuo et al. 2012).  Studies have found that the main reason for this lack of satisfaction is frustration caused by difficulties encountered when using shopping web- sites.  According to a recent report, only 28% of older adults click to purchase online products (Wallace 2017), while about 90% of younger adults purchase online products (Kerr and Castel 2016).  Moreover, a recent report shows that only 26% of older adults are very confident in using computers to do their online shopping (Monica et al. 2017).  Based on the Internet consumer behavioral model for the elderly (O’Keefe and  McEachern  1998),  Kuo  et  al.  (2007)  found  that  older consumers have serious difficulties in examining products and evaluating and comparing them to make online shopping deci- sions.  Hence, a decision aid with an appropriate design could facilitate older adults’ online shopping experiences (Kuo et al. 2012).  In the IS literature, although it is found that such tools could indeed help younger consumers to examine, evaluate, and compare products, the support of these tools and the ap- propriate design for older consumers are still unknown (Kuo et al. 2012).   Given the quickly rising population of older adults and their strong interest in shopping online, they are highly likely to encounter and consider the use of the RAs offered on online shopping sites.  Considering the high potential benefits asso- ciated with RA utilization to both users and to online stores, it is in the best interest of e-commerce websites that older adults adopt the use of RAs.  However, due to the almost non- existent research on this issue, how to design RAs to best suit older adults’ needs is an unexplored question.  This study is an attempt to address this “unknown” in the IS literature. RAs vary in the amount of detail (or comprehensiveness) they provide in eliciting consumers’ preferences and in presenting Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents them  with  recommendations  based  on  their  preferences (Ghasemaghaei 2016; Xiao and Benbasat 2007).  Compared to younger adults, older adults may perceive difficulties due to the increased complexity associated with using highly com- prehensive RAs.  This could be due to age-related changes in cognition and motor functioning in older adults, which may lead them to experience difficulties in using new technologies compared to their younger counterparts (Charness and Boot 2009).  From that perspective, a poorly designed (e.g., overly complex) RA could end up exacerbating the problems of older adults in online environments.  On the other hand, consumers may perceive highly comprehensive RAs to be more useful than low comprehensiveness RAs as the use of the former could help them find products that better match their detailed preferences (Xiao and Benbasat 2007).  This could be espe- cially true in the case of older adults, given their lower versa- tility in leveraging online resources to search for products and services that match their preferences on their own (Eastman and Iyer 2004).  Therefore, although older users are likely to find  the  high  comprehensiveness  RA  to  be  more  complex compared to the low comprehensiveness RA, that complexity- usefulness trade-off could be worthwhile as the RA handles a lot of the additional mental processing involved. In  the  IS  literature,  usually  age  has  been  measured  as  the number of years from birth (i.e., chronological age) without much attention to individuals’ self-perceptions about their age (Hong et al. 2013).  However, according to Sherman et al. (2001), “age is revealing itself to be more a state of mind than a physical state” (p. 188).  Hong et al. (2013) found the self- perception of individuals’ own age (i.e., cognitive age) to be a better predictor of their perceptions and behaviors toward using technology than their chronological age.  For example, elderly people who perceive themselves to be younger are more likely to use the Internet (Eastman and Iyer 2004), tend to seek more information online, have lower anxiety toward new  technology,  and  use  more  high-tech  products  (Chang 2008)  compared  to  their  counterparts  who  perceive  them- selves to be older (Ghasemaghaei 2016).   Further, in the online environment, many vendors ask con- sumers to provide their demographic data (e.g., age).  How- ever, previous studies argue that consumers often withhold their personal data or provide false data over privacy concerns (Dwyer et al. 2007; Feng and Xie 2014; Hoffman et al. 1999). This is because consumers consider such data to be sensitive information and that it could result in more unsolicited mar- keting (Xu et al. 2014).  A recent report by Chahal (2015) found that 60% of consumers intentionally provide incorrect personal information online and that birth dates are the most commonly falsified data that consumers provide.  Along the same lines, Jiang et al. (2013) argue that in the online envi- ronment, consumers may manipulate their anonymity status by concealing their demographic data (e.g., age) or by pro- viding false data to maintain a sense of immunity and to lower their privacy concerns.  The cognitive age measure, on the other hand, is less threatening to customers from a privacy perspective as it asks individuals to answer four simple ques- tions related to their perceptions about their looks, feelings, actions, and interests relative to different age groups (Barak and Gould 1985; Barak and Schiffman 1981), as opposed to a specific question about their exact age or birth date.  There- fore, (1) as many consumers provide inaccurate data about their chronological age in the online environment, (2) as cog- nitive age questions do not reveal consumers identity, and (3) as cognitive age is a better predictor of individuals’ per- ceptions and behaviors, we utilize the cognitive age of users rather than their chronological age in this study. In summary, this study investigates the yet unanswered ques- tion of evaluating the perceptions of cognitively older adults toward RA designs of different levels of comprehensiveness. The  empirical  findings  of  this  study  provide  online  RA designers with important guidelines that should be considered when designing RAs for different age groups. Theoretical Background RA Comprehensiveness Xiao and Benbasat (2007) argue that RAs vary in the amount of detail (or comprehensiveness).  In this study, we define RA comprehensiveness as the number of required product attri- butes elicited from users in the initial stage of using the RA, and the number of recommendations and associated product attributes presented to them in the final stage of using it.  RAs with low levels of comprehensiveness ask consumers to pro- vide only a few product attributes to understand their prefer- ences and suggest a short list of recommended products with an  associated  small  number  of  attributes  for  customers  to compare simultaneously.  On the other hand, RAs with high levels  of  comprehensiveness  ask  consumers  to  provide  a higher number of product attributes to better understand their preferences and suggest a long list of recommended products with an associated larger number of attributes for customers to compare (Ghasemaghaei et al. 2014). Aging and IT Use According to theories of psychological aging, older adults face limitations in their cognitive abilities (Kooij et al. 2008).  Such limitations may cause older adults to experience diffi- culties when  interacting with online interfaces and in making MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 331 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents high quality decisions while using IT applications, including decisions made in online environments (Becker 2004).  Below we  examine  three  relevant  aging  theories:    the  resources, speed, and inhibition theories (Cabeza 2002).   First,  the  notion  of  reduced  processing  resources,  which sometimes is referred to as attentional capacity, refers to the limited number of cognitive resources available for allocation to  a  given  cognitive  task  (Balota  et  al.  2000;  Kahneman 1973).    Studies  show  that  reduced  attentional  resources decrease older adults’ ability to engage in more complex and cognitively  demanding  tasks  (e.g.,  Craik  and  Byrd  1982; Salthouse 1982).  Second, according to the processing speed theory, aging is associated with a decline in the speed with which  information  processing  can  be  performed,  and  this decrease  in  speed  leads  to  impairments  in  cognitive  func- tioning  (e.g.,  Birren  et  al.  1980;  Cerella  1985;  Salthouse 1996).  Therefore, cognitive performance is degraded when information processing is slow because of declines in mem- ory, whereby products of early processing stages might no longer  be  available  in  memory  in  later  processing  stages. Studies show that older adults take much longer than younger adults to accomplish different tasks (Brinley 1965).  Third, age-related deficits in cognitive performance may also arise from a reduced efficiency in the  ability to filter irrelevant information when focusing on the current task demands (e.g., Balota et al. 2000; Hartman and Hasher 1991; Hasher et al. 1991).    Zacks  (1989)  suggests  that  older  adults  are  more distracted by irrelevant information. Because  of  age-related  changes  in  cognition  and  in  motor functioning, older adults often experience difficulty in using new technologies compared with their younger counterparts, and thus the use of new technologies becomes more chal- lenging for this segment (Charness and Boot 2009).  Page (2014)  found  that  older  adults  remain  slow  at  adapting  to technologies, as they often feel anxiety in using them.  Hence, more efforts should be directed toward making technologies simpler  and  easier  for  this  age  group  (Czaja  et  al.  2006). Likewise,  Chang  (2013)  found  that  compared  to  younger adults,  older  adults  are  more  likely  to  have  difficulties  in recognizing  and  selecting  wanted  functions  from  different information displayed on screens of multifunctional devices (e.g., smartphones).  Similarly, Kurniawan (2008) found that as  older  adults  experience  difficulty  in  different  stages  of interaction when using new technology, they often have to involve other people to help them to use such technologies. Hawley-Hague et al. (2014) also found that older adults have issues related to the use of information and communication technologies.  Particularly, they found that technology needs to  be  simple  to  use,  reliable,  and  tailored  to  older  adults’ needs;  such  findings  have  also  been  supported  by  many previous  studies  (e.g.,  Demiris  et  al.  2008;  Demiris  et  al. 332 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 2004; Steele et al. 2009).  Hence, based on the extant litera- ture,  it  is  generally  believed  that  the  older  the  user,  the simpler the IT should be.  Given this prevalent view, in this study, we wanted to explore whether this is also true in the case of online RAs. Measurement of Age Chronological age and self-perceived age are two main ap- proaches to measuring age (Hong et al. 2013).  Chronological age (i.e., the number of years since birth) is a commonly used age measure, although no longer considered a good predictor of  factors  such  as  mental  outlook  and  cognitive  ability (Pesonen et al. 2015).  Thus, despite its popularity in the IS literature,  its  use  is  problematic,  especially  for  research focused on understanding the impacts of age on behavioral patterns of individuals (Hong et al. 2013). Aging research suggests that most adults tend to feel younger than  their  chronological  age,  and  such  tendencies  become more pronounced as they get older (Kastenbaum et al. 1972); this  is  supported  by  many  studies  (e.g.,  Barak  and  Gould 1985; Clark et al. 1999; Czaja et al. 2001).  Lindberg et al. (2006) suggest that predictions regarding computer user per- formance should not be based solely on chronological age. As such, some research has focused on the subjective percep- tion of how old a person feels as a measure of age (Barak 2009; Guido et al. 2014).  Likewise, Barak and Schiffman (1981) suggest that individuals’ behaviors may be based on perceived or felt age rather than their chronological age.  Cog- nitive age, which refers to how old individuals are based on their self-perceptions regarding their looks, feelings, actions, and interests (Barak and Gould 1985; Barak and Schiffman 1981), has been the most commonly used self-perceived age measurement in consumer research (e.g., Hong et al. 2013; Hong et al. 2008; Underhill and Cadwell 1984; Wilkes 1992) and has been found to correlate well with chronological age (Sudbury-Riley et al. 2015; Wenzke 2014).  Schwall et al. (2012) suggest that there are three subcategories of individual aging:  biological, social, and psychological.  They noted that cognitive age is a type of subjective age that considers all of these subcategories in computing one’s age.  Research has also shown that cognitive age has a good predictive validity as  it  can  be  more  effective  in  (1)  capturing  older  adults’ lifestyles (Iyer et al. 2008), (2) explaining their choices (Ying and Yao 2010), and (3) predicting their purchases (Myers and Lumbers 2008) than other widely used variables such as edu- cation,  income,  and  health  (Guido  et  al.  2014).    Further, recent findings suggest cognitive age is a better  predictor of people’s beliefs, attitudes, and behavior than chronological age (Teller et al. 2013).   For example, Sudbury-Riley et al. (2015)  argue  that  cognitive  age  may  be  more  useful  than Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents chronological age when studying older adults’ behavior and perceptions because aging does not occur in the same way for everyone.  Further, Teller et al. (2013) argue that cognitive age is “a more accurate reflection of changes related to age and aging than chronological age” (p. 317).  Therefore, cogni- tive age is arguably a more accurate predictor of people’s beliefs, attitudes, and behavior than chronological age, since it  reflects  this  nonconstant  rate  of  aging  more  accurately (Moschis and Mathur 2006; Sherman et al. 2001).  In  the context of IT, studies suggest cognitive age  is a better mea- sure of age, compared to chronological age, for understanding consumers’ behavior toward new IT (Chang 2008; Eastman and  Iyer  2004;  Ghasemaghaei  2016;  Ghasemaghaei  et  al. 2014; Hong et al. 2013).  Wenzke (2014) argues that those who  feel  cognitively  young  are  more  willing  to  test  new things and are more likely to show innovative behavior. Previous  studies  argue  that  individuals’  perceptions  about themselves have an impact on their attitudes and behaviors.  For example, it is well established in the IS literature that self- efficacy (a self-perceived construct) has an impact on users’ perceptions regarding their attitude toward and intention to use specific information technologies.  Woodward and Walls- ton (1987) investigated the impact of individuals’ age on their perceived self-efficacy and found self-efficacy perceptions were lower for individuals over 60 years of age.  Along these lines and considering cognitive age, Bergland et al. (2014) found  that  individuals  with  lower  cognitive  age  perceive higher self-efficacy in accomplishing their tasks compared to individuals with higher cognitive age.  Likewise, Boehmer (2007)  found  that  individuals  with  younger  age  identities (which is self-perceived age) reported higher levels of per- ceived self-efficacy compared to individuals with older age identities; this result is consistent with other previous studies (e.g., Infurna et al. 2010; Schafer and Shippee 2009; Stephan et al. 2012).  In addition, Schafer and Shippee (2009) found that those individuals who perceive their age to be younger than their chronological age are more optimistic about their ability to maintain memory and other aspects of cognitive ability (e.g., memory performance). Cognitive  age  is  also  found  to  be  a  better  predictor  than chronological age of one’s declining cognitive abilities.  Pre- vious studies argue that individuals’ cognition and cognitive abilities do not erode at a constant rate for all consumers as chronological age increases (Cole et al. 2008; Teller et al. 2013; Zeithaml and Gilly 1987).  According to Teller et al. (2013),  chronological  age  does  not  accurately  reflect  the changes in individuals’ bodily systems that result in declines in physical and cognitive abilities with age.  Cognitive age, on the other hand, takes into account such changes that occur over time to a more accurate degree (Moschis 2012; Teller et al. 2013).  Previous studies found that individuals’ cognitive age is a significant predictor of their cognitive ability, with cognitively younger age being predictive of better cognitive functioning (Kerr and Castel 2016; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009). Particularly,  studies  argue  that  cognitively  younger  adults have better mental and physical functioning (Barak and Stern 1986; Barrett 2003; Geraci et al. 2017; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009; Stephan et al. 2012) compared to those who report older cognitive ages.  Stephan et al. (2014) found that older adults who report feeling relatively young show superior executive functioning and long-term memory performance compared to older adults who report feeling relatively older.  In their study, they found that even after controlling for chronological age and  levels  of  physical  activity,  individuals’  cognitive  age remained a significant predictor of executive functioning and memory performance.  Similarly, Stephan et al. (2015) found that  younger  cognitive  age  is  positively  associated  with superior immediate and delayed recall and superior memory performance,  even  after  accounting  for  demographic  and health variables.  Stephan et al. (2014) argue that there are reasons  to  expect  that  individuals’  cognitive  age  may  be related to their cognition, given that it has been related to behavioral, psychosocial, and health-related processes that influence the rate of cognitive decline.  Previous studies found a positive relationship between a younger cognitive age and memory  self-efficacy  (Stephan  et  al.  2012;  Stephan  et  al. 2015).  Moreover, health and lifestyle patterns are another argument in favor of the impact of individuals’ cognitive age on their cognitive abilities.  Particularly, individuals who feel younger than their chronological age are generally healthier and are less likely to suffer from chronic conditions, such as diabetes and hypertension (Demakakos et al. 2007).  There- fore, these individuals with a younger cognitive age are more likely to engage in health-promoting behaviors, such as physi- cal  activity  (Caudroit  et  al.  2012).    Individuals  with  more active lifestyles generally perform better on cognitive ability testing, including memory and executive functioning (Kramer et al. 2006; Weuve et al. 2004). To summarize, in this study we use cognitive age as a more appropriate  measure  to  understand  how  age  impacts  con- sumers’ experiences while using online RAs, rather than their chronological age, because, as mentioned above, many pre- vious studies identified it as a better predictor of individuals’ attitudes and behavior.  It reflects an individuals’ assessment of their own cognitive abilities, which in turn has an impact on their perceptions in relation to other perceived constructs used in this study (e.g., complexity, PU).  Moreover, most consumers commonly provide falsified data for chronological age in the online environment (Chahal 2015), undermining the reliability of this age measure.  Further, cognitive age corre- lates well with chronological age and has been shown as a better predictor of declines in cognitive abilities and asso- ciated changes in attitude. MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 333 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Effort–Accuracy Framework According  to  the  effort–accuracy  framework  proposed  by Payne (1982), the main objectives of a decision maker are to minimize the cognitive effort and maximize the accuracy of decision  making.    As  these  objectives  often  conflict,  this theory postulates that a consumer’s decision-making process is often influenced by a trade-off between the effort required to make a decision and the accuracy of that decision whereby more accurate decisions come at the expense of more effort (Payne et al. 1993).  The empirical research on the effort– accuracy framework suggests that people focus more on effort reduction rather than on accuracy improvement due to their cognitive limitations (Punj 2011).  Todd and Benbasat (1991, 1992, 1999, 2000) conducted a series of studies investigating the  choice  behavior  of  decision  makers  when  they  use computer-based decision aids.  They found that individuals use decision-aiding tools to maintain a low level of effort expenditure in their decision making.  Particularly, they found that  since  online  decision-aiding  tools  reduce  some  of  the effort associated with applying decision strategies, decision makers are able to use more normative strategies that lead to more accurate decisions.  In addition, they argue that as deci- sion aids reduce decision making effort, it becomes possible for designers of these tools to alter the way in which informa- tion is processed.  In the context of online RAs, studies have relied on the effort–accuracy framework to investigate the beneficial impact of RAs on decreasing the cognitive effort expended by users while also increasing the accuracy of their decision  making  (Benbasat  and  Todd  1996;  Gretzel  and Fesenmaier 2006; Häubl and Trifts 2000; Hostler et al. 2005). The  fundamental  premise  on  which  the  effort–accuracy framework is based is that individuals have finite limits to process information at any given time.  Therefore, if they are provided  with  too  much  information  at  a  given  time  that exceeds their processing limits, information overload occurs, which increases the complexity perception of the decision- making process (Malhotra 1982).  Thus, an individual could be viewed as a limited information-processing system (Newell et al. 1972).  Further, according to the effort–accuracy frame- work, people often focus more on effort reduction in their information  processing  tasks,  where  they  try  to  find  ways (e.g., using online RAs) to decrease their overall effort and increase the accuracy of their decision making (Creyer et al. 1990).  Complexity theory is also consistent with these views (Malhotra  1982).    Therefore,  in  the  context  of  this  study, although older users are expected to find the high comprehen- siveness  RA  to  be  more  complex  compared  to  the  low comprehensiveness RA, this additional complexity could be worth their while considering the higher decision accuracy expected and especially since a lot of the additional mental processing required is handled by the RA in the processing 334 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 stage of its operation.  Hence, cognitively older adults may perceive the higher comprehensiveness RA to be more useful as it provides more complete information about the products they are seeking to purchase, and thus they do not have to put much effort into leveraging online resources on their own to search for the products that best match their preferences. Hypotheses Development RA Complexity Perceptions Complexity is defined as “the degree to which an innovation is  perceived  as  relatively  difficult  to  understand  and  use” (Rogers and Shoemaker 1971, p. 180).  This definition, and an accompanying measure, was used by Thompson et al. (1991) to understand the impact of individuals’ complexity percep- tions  on  perceived  utilization  of  a  new  technology.    Ac- cordingly, in this research, we define RA complexity as the degree  to  which  a  user  perceives  the  RA  to  be  relatively difficult to understand and use. Kieras and Polson (1985) proposed a cognitive complexity theory, which considers the cognitive complexity of the inter- action between a device and a user.  This theory explains users’ difficulty in accepting and using a new technology due to the extraneous cognitive load they experience when using such a technology (Dean 2008).  Cognitive load refers to “the mental resources a person has available for solving problems or completing tasks at a given time” (Oviatt 2006, p. 873).  If the amount of information processing exceeds an individual’s cognitive  capacity,  his/her  attention  to  the  task  may  get diluted (Kahneman 1973). Wood (1986) argues that information cues, which refer to the pieces of information about the stimulus that a person should process  in  performing  a  task,  are  central  to  understanding perceived complexity.  They note that the complexity percep- tions  of  a  particular  task  are  related  to  the  number  of  the distinct acts that need to be performed and the number of distinct information cues that should be processed in the per- formance of those acts.  Likewise, Alvarez and Cavanagh (2004) argue that increasing the information load per object, as well as the number of objects in a task, increases com- plexity perceptions as individuals have limitations in their memory capacity.  This relationship would be stronger for cognitively older adults since aging is generally associated with declines in cognitive and physical functioning (Teller et al. 2013). Studies  have  argued  that  individuals’  cognitive  age  is  an important predictor of their cognitive ability, with cognitively Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents younger age being predictive of better cognitive functioning (Kerr and Castel 2016; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009).  In general, cognitively younger adults have better mental and physical functioning (Barak and Stern 1986; Barrett 2003; Geraci et al. 2017; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009; Stephan et al. 2012) com- pared to cognitively older adults.  For example, Stephan et al. (2015) found that individuals with lower cognitive age have superior  memory  performance  and  higher  immediate  and delayed recall when they are performing a particular task. Similarly,  Stephan  et  al.  (2014)  found  that  cognitively younger  adults  have  superior  executive  functioning  and memory performance compared to cognitively older adults. Thus, in the context of online RAs, when RAs provide infor- mation consisting of large amounts of text, cognitively older adults may experience higher levels of complexity compared to their cognitively younger counterparts.  This is due to the extra time and effort it would take them to (1) respond to all the  questions  at  the  initial  stage  of  using  an  RA  and (2)  analyze/compare  the  higher  number  of  recommended alternatives with their more detailed specifications at the final stage. Further, previous studies argue that individuals’ perceptions about  themselves  have  an  impact  on  their  attitudes  and behaviors.  For example, Bergland et al. (2014) found that individuals  with  lower  cognitive  age  perceive  higher  self- efficacy in accomplishing their tasks compared to individuals with higher cognitive age.  Moreover, Schafer and Shippee (2009) found that those individuals who perceive their age to be younger than their chronological age are more optimistic about their ability to maintain memory and other aspects of cognitive ability (e.g., memory performance).  Hence, cogni- tively older adults are expected to experience higher percep- tions  of  complexity  while  using  RAs  with  a  high  level  of comprehensiveness  compared  to  their  cognitively  younger counterparts.  Thus we hypothesize that H1: Cognitive age moderates the effect of RA com- prehensiveness  on  increasing  perceived  RA complexity, such that the effect is stronger for cognitively older adults. RA Usefulness Perceptions Perceived usefulness, in the context of IT use, is defined as the degree to which an individual believes that using a spe- cific system would enhance her/his task performance (Davis 1989).    In  the  context  of  this  study,  perceived  usefulness refers to the degree to which a user believes an RA to be use- ful for his/her online shopping task.  Previous studies argue that usefulness perception of an online RA is a critical factor in consumers’ intention to adopt the RA (Benbasat and Wang 2005; Kowatsch and Maass 2010; Xiao and Benbasat 2007).  In IT adoption models (e.g., TAM), IT acceptance is deter- mined  by  salient  beliefs  (e.g.,  usefulness)  (Benbasat  and Wang 2005).  Moreover, Kamis et al. (2008) found that per- ceived  usefulness  of  an  online  RA  leads  to  consumers’ intention to return to a website.  In addition, Kowatsch and Maass  (2010)  found  that  the  usefulness  perception  of  an online RA impacts individuals’ intention to use an RA, and their intention to purchase after using it.  Therefore, as RA usefulness perception is considered a critical factor in posi- tively impacting consumers’ behavior in their online shopping behavior, in this study, we investigate the moderating impact of cognitive age on the impact of RA comprehensiveness on RA usefulness perception. There are two competing lines of reasoning about the moder- ating impact of cognitive age on the effect of RA comprehen- siveness on perceived usefulness.  The first is that a highly comprehensive  RA  provides  a  large  amount  of  detail  in eliciting consumers’ preferences and in presenting the recom- mendations  to  the  users,  which  increases  users’  cognitive effort.  As previously mentioned, individuals’ cognitive age is a significant predictor of their cognitive ability, with cogni- tively  younger  age  being  predictive  of  better  cognitive functioning (Kerr and Castel 2016; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009). Mata et al. (2007) suggest that offering different choices, as is  the  case  with  highly  comprehensive  RAs,  can  increase information  overload  perceptions  and  cause  confusion  for cognitively  older  adults.    Thus,  compared  to  cognitively younger adults, they may not be able to process fully all the detailed information provided by highly comprehensive RAs and as a result may perceive these RAs to be less useful. However,  and  importantly,  according  to  a  second  and  op- posing  line  of  thought,  high  comprehensiveness  RAs  are likely to provide more detailed support compared to low com- prehensiveness RAs by eliciting a larger set of attributes from the users about their needs and thus providing a potentially better and larger set of advice concerning best fitting products for the user.  Further, some of the additional effort that is associated with this comprehensiveness will be assumed by the  RA  itself,  since  searching  the  product  base  and  deter- mining if these products are a good match with the attribute values (needs) identified by the users will be automated by the RA.    As  a  consequence,  a  more  comprehensive  analysis would require some effort on the part of the user, who will answer additional needs-identifying questions, but the bulk and complex part of the processing for matching products will be handled by the RA, culminating in exploring and finding more  suitable  (i.e.,  best  fitting)  products.    To  recap,  this higher total effort will lead to higher accuracy as predicted by the effort–accuracy framework (Hostler et al. 2005; Payne et al. 1993; Todd and Benbasat 1991).  From this perspective, MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 335 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents while still perceiving higher complexity than their younger counterparts, cognitively older adults are more in need of, and could benefit more from using, highly comprehensive RAs compared  to  their  cognitively  younger  counterparts,  who would not benefit as much from the additional support given by such RAs since, based on the cognitive age literature, they have more processing ability (Stephan et al. 2014) and thus are more capable of finding the best fitting products even on their own.  On the other hand, cognitively older adults may find highly comprehensive RAs to be more useful compared to less comprehensive RAs, given their lower versatility in leveraging online resources to search for products that best match their preferences and needs on their own.  Thus, on the balance of the above arguments we hypothesize that H2: Cognitive age moderates the effect of RA com- prehensiveness  on  increasing  perceived  RA usefulness, such that the effect is stronger for cognitively older adults. Research Methodology Recommendation Agents (RAs) In this study, experimental RAs were designed to help parti- cipants  in  choosing  a  car  to  purchase.    This  product  was selected  because  it  has  many  product  attributes,  requires strong consumer involvement in the purchasing process, and is  a  product  of  interest  to  both  younger  and  older  adults (Lambert-Pandraud et al. 2005). Based on our survey of commercial RAs used for shopping for  cars  online,  we  selected  a  well-known  RA (www.MyProductAdvisor.com), which was used in several other research studies (e.g., Aljukhadar and Senecal 2011), to form the basis of the two RAs designed for this experimental study.    The  designed  RAs  (shown  in  Appendix  A)  were further fine-tuned through a pilot study involving 50 parti- cipants.  To minimize any confounding effects due to brand or design elements, both RAs focused on the same car brand (Toyota was chosen in this case).  As shown in Table 1, the RAs exhibited different levels of comprehensiveness.  Miller (1956)  found  that  people  could  concurrently  hold  7  ±  2 chunks  of  information  in  their  working  memory,  which formed the basis for our choice of the number of attributes for the  low  and  high  comprehensiveness  treatments  for  the designed RAs.  Thus, we expect that subjects will experience significantly  different  perceptions  regarding  RA  compre- hensiveness between the low and high treatments shown in Table 1. 336 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 Experimental Procedures, Incentives, and Participants Participants were general online shoppers from Canada and the United States recruited through a market research firm. Each participant had a chance to win one of the five monthly $1000  prizes  that  were  awarded  by  the  research  firm  in exchange for participation.  To motivate participants to take the experimental task seriously, they were informed that 25% of them would get an additional reward from $10 to $50 based on their performance (prior to the experiment, participants were  informed  that  they  would  be  asked  to  provide  justi- fications  for  their  car  selection  decisions  and  their  perfor- mance would be examined based on how convincing their justifications were in supporting their decisions).  Participants were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental RA treatments  (i.e.,  low  or  high  comprehensiveness  RA)  and asked to use their assigned RA to complete the car-shopping task.  They were then directed to respond to the cognitive age questions and complete the survey instrument. Measurements of Variables In  order  to  ensure  content  validity,  previously  validated instruments were used to measure constructs in this study.  As shown in Appendix B,2 perceived complexity was measured using the four-item scale from Thompson et al. (1991), and perceived usefulness was measured using the four-item scale from  Hassanein  and  Head  (2007).    Scales  were  slightly adapted to reflect the context of this study.  RA comprehen- siveness was coded as a dummy variable (i.e., 1 for low and 2 for high comprehensiveness).  Age was measured using a cognitive age scale based on Barak and Schiffman (1981), as shown in Table 2.  Barak and Schiffman measured individ- uals’ cognitive age as the average of the midpoint values of the four age dimensions.   In that paper, the items achieved an internal consistency reliability score of 0.86.  Thus we used this method to compute cognitive age.  Studies have found that the four questions of the cognitive age scale are very easy for respondents to understand and answer (Stephens 1991), and they are valid, reliable, and globally usable (Kohlbacher and Chéron 2012).  In this study, seven potentially relevant control variables were also included in the survey, including participant’s interest in purchasing a car, participant’s knowl- edge about cars in general, an individual’s education level, user  RA  experience,  gender,  Web  experience,  and  task complexity. 2The scale for perceived behavioral intention (BI) is also included in Appen- dix B as the impact of PU and complexity perceptions on BI is examined later in the post hoc analyses section.  In addition, the validity and reliability of BI are also included in the construct validation section. Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Table 1.  RA Design Number of product attributes elicited Number of recommendations and number of associated attributes  Low Comprehensiveness RA 8 attributes 5 recommendations and 8 attributes for each recommendation  High Comprehensiveness RA 29 attributes 8 recommendations and 29 attributes for each recommendation Table 2.  Cognitive Age Scale (Barak and Schiffman 1981) 20s 30s 40s 50s 60s 70s 80s 90s I FEEL as though I am in my I LOOK as though I am in my I DO most things as though I were in my My INTERESTS are mostly those of a person in his/her Data Analysis and Results Sample To ensure that we had enough cognitively younger and cogni- tively older adults in our sample, we initially approached 300 participants.    Out  of  these  300  participants,  273  provided usable data.  These 273 online shoppers, of which 52% were males, had an average chronological age of 54.8 and an aver- age cognitive age of 43.8 years.  The statistical distribution of cognitive  age  relative  to  chronological  age  is  shown  in Appendix C. To support our analysis of the moderating impact of cognitive age on the relation between RA comprehensiveness and RA complexity (H1), as well as RA comprehensiveness and RA perceived usefulness (H2), participants were asked to respond to  the  cognitive  age  scale  questions.    Based  on  their responses, each participant’s cognitive age was computed. For the purposes of this analysis, we focused on comparing two specific cognitive age groups.  The first group consisted of cognitively younger adults (20 # cognitive age # 30) while the second group consisted of cognitively older adults (cogni- tive  age  $  60).    These  two  ranges  of  cognitive  age  were chosen for this analysis since, according to Tucker-Drob and Salthouse  (2008),  the  cognitive  abilities  of  individuals belonging to these two groups chronologically are markedly different,  with  the  younger  group  exhibiting  significantly higher cognitive abilities compared to the older group.  These differences are expected to still be present when comparing these groups on a cognitive age basis, as the chronologically older  group  will  still  be  cognitively  much  older  than  the younger group (Hong et al. 2013).  Based on the responses of our sample of 273 participants to the cognitive age scale, 85 participants ended up being classified as cognitively younger adults while 55 were classified as cognitively older adults. Manipulation Check After the experimental task was completed (using an RA with either low or high comprehensiveness), each participant was asked to respond to the following two questions using a five- point Likert scale (very low to very high): (1) Please indicate your perceptions regarding the number of product attributes and the level of detail associated with each attribute at the stage where the RA elicited your preferences for the car attributes you are looking for. (2) Please indicate your perceptions regarding the number of recommendations and the number of associated product attributes at the stage where the RA recommendations were presented to you. For the first question, participants who used the low compre- hensiveness RA reported a mean of 2.68 (standard deviation of 1.76), whereas participants who used the high comprehen- siveness RA reported a mean of 3.51 (standard deviation of 1.68).  This difference was significant (one-way ANOVA, p < 0.001).  For the second question, participants who used the low comprehensiveness RA reported a mean of 2.64 (standard deviation of 1.77) on manipulation check question, whereas participants  who  used  the  high  comprehensiveness  RA reported a mean of 3.43 (standard deviation of 1.74).  This difference was also significant (one-way ANOVA, p < 0.001). Hence,  our  manipulation  of  RA  comprehensiveness  was successful. Construct Validation To evaluate the measurement item reliability, the loadings of each  measurement  item  on  its  intended  construct  were MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 337 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents assessed and compared with the recommended tolerance of 0.70 (Chin 1998) (see Appendix D).  As Table D1 shows, all indicators  loaded  most  highly  on  their  own  theoretically assigned  construct,  and  at  a  minimum  threshold  of  0.70.  Gefen and Straub (2005) suggest that “loadings of the mea- surement items on their assigned latent variables should be an order of magnitude larger than any other loading” (p. 93) and the difference should be at least 0.10.  As shown in Appendix D, this criterion was also met. As can be seen in Table 3, to demonstrate the internal consis- tency of the constructs, the composite reliability and Cron- bach’s alpha were calculated for each construct across our sample of cognitively younger and older adults (n = 140).  As shown in Table 3, all constructs met the recommended toler- ance of being higher than 0.70 (Fornell and Larcker 1981).  In Table 3, the diagonal elements show the square roots of the average variance extracted (AVE) of variables, and the off- diagonal numbers represent the correlation between variables. According to Barclay et al. (1995), to have adequate discrim- inant validity, the square root of the AVE of a construct must be larger than the correlation between that construct and any other construct.  As shown in Table 3, all variable pairs met this  requirement.    Table  4  shows  the  means  and  standard deviations of the variables. Tests of the Moderation Hypotheses To test the moderating impact of cognitive age on the relation between RA comprehensiveness and RA complexity (H1), as well as RA comprehensiveness and RA perceived usefulness (H2),  ANOVA  analyses  were  conducted  to  understand whether any differences exist between cognitively older and younger adults’ perceptions following a 2 × 2 factorial design (i.e., low cognitive age (between 20 and 30)/high cognitive age (above 60) × low RA comprehensiveness/high RA com- prehensiveness)  (Box  et  al.  1978).    First,  we  conducted  a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) on both per- ceived PU and perceived complexity together.  Pillai’s trace test  revealed  a  significant  main  effect  of  RA  comprehen- siveness (p < 0.001) as well as a significant interaction effect between  RA  comprehensiveness  and  cognitive  age  (p  < 0.001).  Then, we conducted follow-up ANOVAs to test the effects on perceived PU and perceived complexity separately. Repeated measure ANOVA on RA complexity perception as well as RA usefulness perception yields the significant effects of RA comprehensiveness, cognitive age, and the interaction between  RA  comprehensiveness  and  cognitive  age  (see Tables 5 and 6).  RA complexity and usefulness perceptions when cognitively older and younger adults use RAs with low or high levels of comprehensiveness.  The results of these analyses are shown in Figures 1 and 2.  As hypothesized, cognitive age was found to moderate the relationship between RA comprehensiveness and complexity such that the effect is stronger for cognitively older adults.  Therefore, H1 was supported.  Interestingly, cognitive age was also found to moderate the relationship between RA comprehensiveness and perceived RA usefulness such that the relation is stronger for cognitively older adults.  Therefore, H2 was also supported.  For cognitively younger adults, RA comprehensiveness has no significant impact on their perceptions of RA usefulness and complexity.  On the other  hand,  cognitively  older  adults  perceived  the  high comprehensiveness RA to be significantly more complex, and interestingly more useful.  Finally, results also showed that the  control  variables  did  not  significantly  influence  the dependent variables in our study (i.e., PU and Complexity). Post Hoc Analyses Impact of RA Complexity and Usefulness on Behavioral Intention We also used Smart PLS (Ringle et al. 2005) to investigate the impact of RA complexity and RA usefulness on users’ intention to use the online RA in their future online shopping (BI).  We found that, while the impact of RA usefulness (PU) on behavioral intention is highly significant (β = 0.815; p < 0.001), the impact of RA complexity on intention is margin- ally significant3 (β = -0.078; p < 0.1).  However, when we only consider the impact of perceived complexity on BI in the absence  of  PU,  this  relationship  becomes  significant  (β  = -0.344; p < 0.001).  This is consistent with previous studies (e.g., Jiang and Benbasat 2007; Morris and Venkatesh 2000; Steelman et al. 2014), which found that PU has the dominant impact on BI. Comparing Cognitive Versus Chronological Age We conducted an ANOVA analysis to assess whether dif- ferent results would be obtained if chronological age was used instead of cognitive age in terms of the differences in individuals’ overall complexity perceptions when they use RAs with low or high levels of comprehensiveness.  Using similar groups to those used in our cognitive age analysis (i.e.,  younger  adults  (20–30)  and  older  adults  (60+)),  results showed that the interaction between chronological age and We also conducted multiple comparison analyses to assess whether different results would be obtained in individuals’ 3Recent IS literature has referred to (0.05 < p < 0.10) as “modest” or of “marginal” significance (e.g., Dimoka et al. 2012) 338 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Table 3.  Internal Consistency and Discriminant Validity of Constructs Cognitive Age (COA) Complexity (COM) Usefulness (PU) RA Comprehensiveness (RC) Behavioral Intention (BI) Note:  Composite reliability = CR; Cronbach’s alpha = CA; diagonal elements are the square root of AVE. 0.79 -0.28 0.23 -0.29 0.89 0.26 0.80 COA 0.95 0.63 -0.31 -0.002 -0.28 CR 0.98 0.94 0.97 1.00 0.98 COM PU RC BI 1.00 0.20 0.96 CA 0.98 0.91 0.96 1.00 0.97 SD 0.8 1.1 1.03 Table 4.  Descriptive Statistics with Means and Standard Deviations (SD) Complexity Usefulness Groups Low (n = 72) High (n = 68) Total Sample (n = 140) Low:  RA low comprehensiveness; High:  RA high comprehensiveness Note:  All measures were based on seven-point Likert scales ranging from “strongly disagree” (1) to “strongly agree”(7). Mean 4.83 5.53 5.17 SD 1.4 1.08 1.32 Mean 1.77 2.26 2.01 Behavioral Intention Mean 4.62 5.23 4.92 SD 1.62 1.24 1.48 Table 5.  ANOVA Summary Table for Perceived RA Complexity  Source Intercept RA Comprehensiveness Cognitive Age RA Comprehensiveness × Cognitive Age Error Total df 1 1 1 1 136 140 Mean Square 625.63 11.86 63.76 11.24 0.49 Table 6.  ANOVA Summary Table for Perceived RA Usefulness Source Intercept RA Comprehensiveness Cognitive Age RA Comprehensiveness × Cognitive Age Error Total df 1 1 1 136 140 Mean Square 3447.57 24.077 28.162 14.719 1.35 F 1267.00 24.02 129.1 22.76 F 2550.754 17.814 20.836 10.890 Sig. 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Sig. 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 339 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Figure 1.  Interaction Effect between Cognitive Age and RA Level of Comprehensiveness on Perceived Complexity Figure 2  Interaction Effect between Cognitive Age and RA Level of Comprehensiveness on Perceived Usefulness RA comprehensiveness on users’ overall complexity is not significant (p > 0.05), which is contrary to the results obtained for cognitive age, which showed that cognitively older adults found the high comprehensiveness RA to be more complex than the low comprehensiveness RA, compared to cognitively younger adults.  Hence, the results obtained with cognitive age are more consistent with aging theories, which assert that older adults should experience more complexity when using technology than younger adults, lending support to cognitive age being a better predictor of users’ beliefs regarding RAs than their chronological age.  This result is consistent with previous studies that argue that chronological age does not accurately reflect the changes in individuals’ bodily systems that result in declines in physical and cognitive abilities with age  (Teller  et  al.  2013).    According  to  previous  studies, cognitive age is more useful than chronological  age when 340 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents studying older adults’ behavior and perceptions because aging does not occur in the same way for everyone (Moschis and Mathur 2006; Sudbury-Riley et al. 2015; Teller et al. 2013). Contributions, Limitations, and Future Research Theoretical Contributions This  study  contributes  to  the  literature  by  analyzing  how different levels of RA comprehensiveness (low or high) influ- ence the complexity and usefulness perceptions for users with different  cognitive  ages.    As  expected,  cognitive  age  was found to moderate the relationship between RA comprehen- siveness and complexity perceptions such that the effect is stronger  for  cognitively  older  adults.    Interestingly,  and importantly, contrary to the prevalent belief in the literature that the older the person, the simpler the IT should be, cogni- tive age was found to moderate the relationship between RA comprehensiveness and perceived RA usefulness such that the relationship is stronger for cognitively older adults.  Hence, unlike cognitively younger adults, cognitively older adults perceive significantly more complexity while using high com- prehensiveness RAs compared to lower comprehensiveness RAs.  They also perceive RAs with higher comprehensiveness as being significantly more useful. The higher complexity perceptions are explained by the facts that (1) individuals’ cognitive age is an important predictor of their cognitive ability, with cognitively younger age being predictive of better cognitive functioning (Kerr and Castel 2016; Kotter-Grühn et al. 2009), which in turn  will lower users’ perceptions of RA complexity, and (2) individuals who perceive their age to be younger than their chronological age are more optimistic about their ability to maintain memory and other aspects of cognitive ability (Schafer and Shippee 2009), which will impact their perceptions of their abilities to use information technologies (e.g., RAs).  This, in turn, will affect their perceptions of RA complexity.  The higher useful- ness perceptions arise from the greater need cognitively older adults  have  for  RAs  owing  to  their  cognitive  limitations.  Therefore, although cognitively older RA users find the high comprehensiveness RA to be more complex compared to the low comprehensiveness RA, this additional complexity could be  worth  their  while.    This  makes  sense  considering  the higher decision quality they perceive in return for this com- plexity  and  especially  since  a  lot  of  the  additional  mental processing required is handled by the RA in the processing stage of its operation. This research also responds to Tams et al.’s (2014) call for studies examining the emerging importance of studying age- related impacts on IS phenomena.  Further, recent findings suggest  cognitive  age  is  a  better  age  measure  for  under- standing consumers’ behavior toward IT (here RAs) (Hong et al. 2013).  This is also consistent with our ANOVA findings that  show  that  the  results  obtained  with  cognitive  age  are more  consistent  with  aging  theories  lending  support  to  its being a better predictor of users’ beliefs regarding RA com- plexity than the chronological age.  Thus, as opposed to most IS studies focusing on the role of age in technology adoption, in this study, individuals’ cognitive age was used rather than simply their chronological age. In  summary,  the  population  of  older  adults  is  rapidly  in- creasing, and they are the fastest growing segment of Internet users and have a strong interest in shopping online (Lian and Yen 2014).  However, this user segment has difficulties in examining products and evaluating and comparing them to make effective online shopping decisions (Kuo et al. 2007). Appropriately  designed  decision  aids,  such  as  RAs,  could facilitate older adults’ online shopping experiences (Kuo et al. 2012).  However, extant RA studies (e.g., Benbasat and Wang 2005;  Komiak  and  Benbasat  2006;  Xu  et  al.  2014)  have examined RA interfaces focusing mainly on younger adults.  We  addressed  this  knowledge  gap  by  applying  aging  and effort–accuracy theories to explain how users’ cognitive age moderates the impact of RA comprehensiveness on their RA usefulness and complexity perceptions while they are shop- ping for online products.  Particularly, in this study, we iden- tified the tension that exists for older adults when using highly comprehensive  RAs,  as  they  perceive  them  to  be  more complex on the one hand, but also more useful on the other.  In so doing we advance the RA literature by considering the impact  of  users’  cognitive  age  on  the  design  of  the  RA interface. Practical Contributions This study also has significant implications for practitioners.  Particularly, the results of this study clearly reveal that both cognitively young and old users find the more comprehensive RA to be more useful than the low comprehensive RA.  In particular, the finding that cognitively older adults perceive the high comprehensiveness RA to be more useful compared to the low comprehensiveness RA provides a novel insight. Given that our post hoc analysis reveals that perceived use- fulness is the most dominant factor affecting users’ intentions to use online RAs, our recommendation to online vendors is that, as opposed to the predominant belief that they should provide older adults with the simpler IT, they should provide MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 341 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents the more comprehensive RA on their websites, as it is the more useful option for all age groups and the one likely to lead to intention to use the RA.  From a user’s perspective, the use  of  the  high  comprehensive  RA  could  help  them  find products that better match their detailed preferences.  This could be especially important for cognitively older adults, as they have lower versatility in searching and finding appro- priate online information on their own.  Users who are more satisfied with the products they purchase due to making better decisions  using  more  comprehensive  RAs  are  likely  to  be more loyal and provide repeat business and positive word of mouth for their online vendors.   Limitations and Future Research This study was conducted in a context in which participants assessed an online RA in the pre-adoption stage.  As partici- pants become more familiar with the RA, it is possible that the perceptions of certain elements of complexity (e.g., the learning dimension) of an RA will be reduced in the post- adoption stage.  Thus, research is required to further assess the importance of different factors in post-adoption percep- tions  toward  online  RAs  and  whether  the  effects  of  such factors differ by age.  Second, in this study, we captured the impacts of diminishing physical and cognitive abilities impli- citly through measuring individuals’ cognitive age.  Future research could explore the value of measuring individuals’ actual physical and cognitive limitations through appropriate cognitive tests to objectively determine their abilities, and use that to understand their experience with RA use, instead of using cognitive age as a proxy for such abilities.  However, this approach does not lend itself to a practical implementa- tion in eCommerce settings.  Third, previous research has shown affective factors (e.g., enjoyment) to impact the user experience in eCommerce environments.  Studies argue that affective  factors  may  influence  online  shopping  decision making, as the psychological state of “flow” is a characteristic of online settings (Punj 2012).  Moreover, affective factors can  have  a  significant  role  in  individuals’  motivation  and intention toward performing a task (Zhang 2013).  While such factors  were  outside  the  main  focus  of  this  study,  future research could explore how such factors might influence the experience of users of different cognitive ages with RAs with different comprehensiveness levels.  Finally, the results of this study showed that in the context of online shopping decision making, while comprehensive RAs increase complexity per- ceptions, they also increase usefulness perceptions of the RAs among cognitively older users.  Future studies should investi- gate whether the results of this study could be generalized to all  information  systems,  or  only  those  focused  on  product purchasing.  Particularly, future studies could examine the associations we study here in other contexts (e.g., organiza- 342 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 tional context) using other types of decision support tools.  Moreover,  the  task  of  purchasing  a  car  is  a  complex  task (Tsekouras and Li 2015) and, thus, consumers may find the high comprehensiveness RA to be more useful than the low comprehensiveness  RA,  as  a  lot  of  mental  processing  is handled by the RA.  However, in the case of tasks with a lower level of complexity (e.g., purchasing a computer key- board), consumers may find the low comprehensiveness RA to be equally useful to the high comprehensiveness RA, as they do not need to process a large amount of information to make their purchasing decisions.  Therefore, future studies could  assess  whether  individuals’  perceptions  would  be different when they are involved in a shopping task having a lower level of complexity. Conclusions This study addresses an important gap in the IS literature in terms of understanding the role of aging on the impact of RA comprehensiveness on users’ perceived RA complexity and usefulness, a novel aspect not previously considered in RA research.  The use of individual cognitive age as a measure of age sheds light on how users’ self-perceived age impacts their perceptions in using online RAs.  The study also explored the tension that exists for older adults when using highly compre- hensive RAs, as they perceive them to be more complex but also more useful.  This finding provides a novel insight in the IS literature, as it is contrary to the predominant recommen- dation to provide older users IT with simpler designs.  These results are particularly timely and important given the fast- growing older adult segment of IT users in most developed countries. Acknowledgments The  authors  would  like  to  thank  the  senior  editor,  Kai  Lim,  the associate editor, Heshan Sun, and the three anonymous reviewers for their  valuable  comments  and  suggestions  that  have  substantially improved the quality of this paper.  The authors thank the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) for its  support  of  this  research.    They  would  also  like  to  thank  Jan DeGross for her efforts in typesetting this paper. References Aljukhadar, M., and Senecal, S.  2011.  “Usage and Success Factors of Commercial Recommendation Agents:  A Consumer Qualita- tive Study of MyProductAdvisor.com,” Journal of Research in Interactive Marketing (5:2/3), pp. 130-152. Alvarez, G. A., and Cavanagh, P.  2004.  “The Capacity of Visual Short-Term Memory Is Set Both by Visual Information Load and by  Number  of  Objects,”  Psychological  Science  (15:2),  pp. 106-111. Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Ansari, A., Essegaier, S., and Kohli, R.  2000.  “Internet Recom- mendation Systems,” Journal of Marketing Research (37:3), pp. 363-375. Baecker, R. M., Moffatt, K., and Massimi, M.  2012.  “Technologies for Aging Gracefully,” Interactions (19:3), pp. 32-36. Balota, D. A., Dolan, P. O., and Duchek, J. M.  2000.  “Memory Changes in Healthy Young and Older Adults,” in The Oxford Handbook of Memory, E. Tulving and F. I. M. Craik (eds.), New York:  Oxford University Press, pp. 395-410. Barak, B.  2009.  “Age Identity,” International Journal of Behav- ioral Development (33:1), pp. 2-11. Barak,  B.,  and  Gould,  S.    1985.    “Alternative  Age  Measures,” Advances in Consumer Research (12:1), pp. 53-58. Barak, B., and Schiffman, L. G.  1981.  “Cognitive Age,” Advances in Consumer Research (8:1), pp. 602-606. Barak, B., and Stern, B.  1986.  “Subjective Age Correlates,” The Gerontologist (26:5), pp. 571-578. Barclay, D., Higgins, C., and Thompson, R.  1995.  “The Partial Least Squares (PLS) Approach to Causal Modeling:  Personal Computer  Adoption  and  Use  as  an  Illustration,”  Technology Studies (2:2), pp. 285-309. Barrett, A. E.  2003.  “Socioeconomic Status and Age Identity,” The Journals of Gerontology Series B:  Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences (58:2), pp. S101-S109. Becker, S. A.  2004.  “A Study of Web Usability for Older Adults Seeking  Online  Health  Resources,”  ACM  Transactions  on Computer–Human Interaction (11:4), pp. 387-406. Benbasat, I., and Todd, P.  1996.  “The Effects of Decision Support and Task Contingencies on Model Formulation,” Decision Sup- port Systems (17:4), pp. 241-252. Benbasat, I., and Wang, W.  2005.  “Trust in and Adoption of On- line  Recommendation  Agents,”  Journal  of  the  AIS  (6:3),  pp. 72-101. Bergland, A., Nicolaisen, M., and Thorsen, K.  2014.  “Predictors of Subjective Age in People Aged 40-79 Years,” Aging & Mental Health (18:5), pp. 653-661. Birren, J. E., Woods, A. M., and Williams, M. V.  1980.  “Behav- ioral  Slowing  with  Age:    Causes,  Organization,  and  Conse- quences,” in Aging in the 1980s, L. W. Poon (ed.), Washington, DC:  American Psychological Association, pp. 293-308. Boehmer, S.  2007.  “Relationships between Felt Age and Perceived Disability, Satisfaction with Recovery, Self-Efficacy Beliefs and Coping Strategies,” Journal of Health Psychology (12:6), pp. 895-906. Box, G. E., Hunter, W. G., and Hunter, J. S.  1978.  Statistics for Experimenters:  An Introduction to Design, Data Analysis, and Model Building,  New York:  John Wiley & Sons. Brinley,  J.  F.    1965.    “Cognitive  Sets,  Speed  and  Accuracy  of Performance in the Elderly,” Behavior, Aging and the Nervous System:  Biological Determinants of Speed of Behavior and its Changes  with  Age,  A.  T.  Welford  and  J.  E.  Birren  (eds.), Springfield, IL:  Thomas, pp. 114-149. Cabeza, R.  2002.  “Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction in Older Adults,” Psychology and Aging (17:1), pp. 85-100. Carpenter, S. M., and Yoon, C.  2011.  “Aging and Consumer Deci- sion  Making,”  Annals  of  the  New  York  Academy  of  Sciences (1235:1), pp. E1-E12. Caudroit, J., Stephan, Y., Chalabaev, A., and Le Scanff, C.  2012.  “Subjective Age and Social–Cognitive Determinants of Physical Activity in Active Older Adults,” Journal of Aging and Physical Activity (20:4), pp. 484-496. Cerella, J.  1985.  “Information Processing Rates in the Elderly,” Psychological Bulletin (98:1), pp. 67-83. Chahal, M.  2015.  “Consumers Are ‘Dirtying’ Databases with False Details—Marketing Week” (https://www.marketingweek.com/ 2015/07/08/consumers-are-dirtying-databases-with-false- details/). Chang, C.  2008.  “Chronological Age Versus Cognitive Age for Younger Consumers,” Journal of Advertising (37:3), pp. 19-32. Chang, Y.  2013.  “Age Matters,” International Journal of Mobile Communications (11:2), pp. 159-175. Charness,  N.,  and  Boot,  W.  R.    2009.    “Aging  and  Information Technology Use Potential and Barriers,” Current Directions in Psychological Science (18:5), pp. 253-258. Chin,  W.  W.    1998.    “The  Partial  Least  Squares  Approach  to Structural Equation Modeling,” Modern Methods for Business Research (295:2), pp. 295-336. Clark, S. D., Long, M. M., and Schiffman, L. G.  1999.  “The Mind- Body Connection,” Journal of Social Behavior and Personality (14:2), pp. 221-240. Cole, C., Laurent, G., Drolet, A., Ebert, J., Gutchess, A., Lambert- Pandraud, R., Mullet, E., Norton, M. I., and Peters, E.  2008.  “Decision  Making  and  Brand  Choice  by  Older  Consumers,” Marketing Letters (19:3-4), pp. 355-365. Craik, F. I., and Byrd, M.  1982.  “Aging and Cognitive Deficits,” Chapter 10 in Aging and Cognitive Processes, F. I. M. Craik and S. Trehub (eds.), New York:  Springer, pp. 191-211. Creyer, E. H., Bettman, J. R., and Payne, J. W.  1990.  “The Impact of Accuracy and Effort Feedback and Goals on Adaptive Deci- sion Behavior,” Journal of Behavioral Decision Making (3:1), pp. 1-16. Czaja, S. J., Charness, N., Fisk, A. D., Hertzog, C., Nair, S. N., Rogers, W. A., and Sharit, J.  2006.  “Factors Predicting the Use of Technology,” Psychology and Aging (21:2), pp. 333-352. Czaja, S. J., Sharit, J., Ownby, R., Roth, D. L., and Nair, S.  2001.  “Examining  Age  Differences  in  Performance  of  a  Complex Information Search and Retrieval Task,” Psychology and Aging (16:4), pp. 564-579. Davis, F. D.  1989.  “Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information Technology,” MIS Quar- terly (13:3), pp. 319-340. Dean,  D.  H.    2008.    “Shopper  Age  and  the  Use  of  Self-Service Technologies,” Managing Service Quality (18:3), pp. 225-238. Demakakos, P., Gjonca, E., and Nazroo, J.  2007.  “Age Identity, Age Perceptions, and Health,” Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences (1114:1), pp. 279-287. Demiris,  G.,  Hensel,  B.  K.,  Skubic,  M.,  and  Rantz,  M.    2008.  “Senior Residents’ Perceived Need of and Preferences for ‘Smart Home’  Sensor  Technologies,”  International  Journal  of  Tech- nology Assessment in Health Care (24:01), pp. 120-124. Demiris, G., Rantz, M. J., Aud, M. A., Marek, K. D., Tyrer, H. W., Skubic, M., and Hussam, A. A.  2004.  “Older Adults’ Attitudes towards and Perceptions of ‘Smart Home’Technologies,” Medi- cal Informatics and the Internet in Medicine (29:2), pp. 87-94. Dimoka,  A.,  Hong,  Y.,  and  Pavlou,  P.  A.    2012.    “On  Product Uncertainty  in  Online  Markets:    Theory  and  Evidence,”  MIS Quarterly (36:2), pp. 395-426. MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 343 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Dwyer, C., Hiltz, S., and Passerini, K.  2007.  “Trust and Privacy Concern within Social Networking Sites,” in Proceedings of the 13th  Americas  Conference  on  Information  Systems,  Acapulco, Mexico, pp. 339-341. Eastman, J. K., and Iyer, R.  2004.  “The Elderly’s Uses and Atti- tudes  towards  the  Internet,”  Journal  of  Consumer  Marketing (21:3), pp. 208-220. Feng, Y., and Xie, W.  2014.  “Teens’ Concern for Privacy When Using Social Networking Sites,” Computers in Human Behavior (33), pp. 153-162. Fornell, C., and Larcker, D. F.  1981.  “Structural Equation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Error:  Algebra and  Statistics,”  Journal  of  Marketing  Research  (18:3),  pp. 382-388. Gefen, D., and Straub, D.  2005.  “A Practical Guide to Factorial Validity Using PLS-Graph:  Tutorial and Annotated Example,” Communications of the AIS (16:1), pp. 91-109. Geraci, L., De Forrest, R., Hughes, M., Saenz, G., and Tirso, R.  2017.  “The Effect of Cognitive Testing and Feedback on Older Adults’ Subjective Age,” Aging, Neuropsychology, and Cogni- tion  (https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/13825585. 2017.1413166). Ghasemaghaei,  M.    2016.    “Online  Product  Recommendation Agents Design:  The Role of Cognitive Age and Agent Compre- hensiveness”  unpublished  Doctoral  Dissertation,  McMaster University (https://macsphere.mcmaster.ca/handle/11375/18940). Ghasemaghaei,  M.,  Hassanein,  K.,  and  Benbasat,  I.    2014.  “Intention to Use Recommendation Agents for Online Shopping:  The  Role  of  Cognitive  Age  and  Agent  Complexity,”  in Proceedings of the  35th International Conference on Information Systems (http://aisel.aisnet.org/icis2014/proceedings/HCI/1/). Gourville, J. T., and Soman, D.  2005.  “Overchoice and Assortment Type,” Marketing Science (24:3), pp. 382-395. Gretzel, U., and Fesenmaier, D. R.  2006.  “Persuasion in Recom- mender Systems,” International Journal of Electronic Commerce (11:2), pp. 81-100. Guido, G., Amatulli, C., and Peluso, A. M.  2014.  “Context Effects on Older Consumers’ Cognitive Age,” Psychology & Marketing (31:2), pp. 103-114. Hartman,  M.,  and  Hasher,  L.    1991.    “Aging  and  Suppression,” Psychology and Aging (6:4), pp. 587-594. Hasher, L., Stoltzfus, E. R., Zacks, R. T., and Rypma, B.  1991.  “Age  and  Inhibition,”  Journal  of  Experimental  Psychology:  Learning, Memory, and Cognition (17:1), pp. 163-169. Hassanein, K., and Head, M.  2007.  “Manipulating Perceived Social Presence through the Web Interface and its Impact on Attitude towards  Online  Shopping,”  International  Journal  of  Human– Computer Studies (65:8), pp. 689-708. Häubl, G., and Trifts, V.  2000.  “Consumer Decision Making in Online Shopping Environments,” Marketing Science (19:1), pp. 4-21. Hawley-Hague, H., Boulton, E., Hall, A., Pfeiffer, K., and Todd, C.  2014.    “Older  Adults’  Perceptions  of  Technologies  Aimed  at Falls Prevention, Detection or Monitoring,” International Journal of Medical Informatics (83:6), pp. 416-426. Hoffman, D. L., Novak, T. P., and Peralta, M.  1999.  “Building Consumer Trust Online,” Communications of the ACM (42:4), pp. 80-85. 344 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 Hong, S.-J., Lui, C. S. M., Hahn, J., Moon, J. Y., and Kim, T. G.  2013.  “How Old Are You, Really?  Cognitive Age in Technol- ogy Acceptance,” Decision Support Systems (56), pp. 122-130. Hong, S.-J., Lui, C., Hahn, J., and Tam, K. Y.  2008.  “How Old Are You,  Really?  Cognitive  Versus  Chronological  Age  in  Tech- nology  Acceptance  Decisions,”  in  Proceedings  of  the  2008 Conference  on  Special  Interest  Group  on  Human–Computer Interaction, pp. 28-31. Hostler, R. E., Yoon, V. Y., and Guimaraes, T.  2005.  “Assessing the  Impact  of  Internet  Agent  on  End  Users’  Performance,” Decision Support Systems (41:1), pp. 313-323. Infurna, F. J., Gerstorf, D., Robertson, S., Berg, S., and Zarit, S. H.  2010.  “The Nature and Cross-Domain Correlates of Subjective Age  in  the  Oldest  Old,”  Psychology  and  Aging  (25:2),  pp. 470-476. Iyer, R., Reisenwitz, T. H., and Eastman, J. K.  2008.  “The Impact of Cognitive Age on Seniors’ Lifestyles,” Marketing Manage- ment Journal (18:2), pp. 106-118.   Jiang,  Z.,  and  Benbasat,  I.    2007.    “The  Effects  of  Presentation Formats and Task Complexity on Online Consumers’ Product Understanding,” MIS Quarterly (31:3), pp. 475-500. Jiang, Z., Heng, C. S., and Choi, B. C.  2013.  “Research Note— Privacy  Concerns  and  Privacy-Protective  Behavior  in  Synch- ronous  Online  Social  Interactions,”  Information  Systems Research (24:3), pp. 579-595. Kahneman, D.  1973.  Attention and Effort, Englewood Cliffs, NJ:  Prentice-Hall. Kamis, A., Koufaris, M., and Stern, T.  2008.  “Using an Attribute- Based Decision Support System for User-Customized Products Online,” MIS Quarterly (32:1), pp. 159-177. Kamis, A. A., and Stohr, E. A.  2006.  “Parametric Search Engines,” Information & Management (43:7), pp. 904-918. Kastenbaum, R., Derbin, V., Sabatini, P., and Artt, S.  1972.  “The Ages of Me,” The International Journal of Aging and Human Development (3:2), pp. 197-211. Kerr, T., and Castel, A. D.  2016, “Feeling Old, Doing Fine:  The Effects of Subjective Age on Memory,” poster presentation at the Cognitive Aging Conference, Atlanta, GA. Kieras, D., and Polson, P. G.  1985.  “An Approach to the Formal Analysis of User Complexity,” International Journal of Man– Machine Studies (22:4), pp. 365-394. Kohlbacher,  F.,  and  Chéron,  E.    2012.    “Understanding  ‘Silver’ Consumers through Cognitive Age, Health Condition, Financial Status, and Personal Values,” Journal of Consumer Behaviour (11:3), pp. 179-188. Komiak, S. Y., and Benbasat, I.  2006.  “The Effects of Personali- zation and Familiarity on Trust and Adoption of Recommen- dation Agents,” MIS Quarterly (30:4), pp. 941-960. Kooij, D., de Lange, A., Jansen, P., and Dikkers, J.  2008.  “Older Workers’ Motivation to Continue to Work,” Journal of Mana- gerial Psychology (23:4), pp. 364-394. Kotter-Grühn,  D.,  Kleinspehn-Ammerlahn,  A.,  Gerstorf,  D.,  and Smith, J.  2009.  “Self-Perceptions of Aging Predict Mortality and Change with Approaching Death,” Psychology and Aging (24:3), pp. 654-667. Kowatsch, T., and Maass, W.  2010.  “In-Store Consumer Behav- ior,” Computers in Human Behavior (26:4), pp. 697-704. Kramer, A. F., Erickson, K. I., and Colcombe, S. J.  2006.  “Exer- cise,  Cognition,  and  the  Aging  Brain,”  Journal  of  Applied Physiology (101:4), pp. 1237-1242. Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Kuo, H.-M., Chen, C.-W., and Hsu, C.-H.  2012.  “A Study of a B2C  Supporting  Interface  Design  System  for  the  Elderly,” Human Factors and Ergonomics in Manufacturing & Service Industries (22:6), pp. 528-540. Kuo, H.-M., Fu, H. H., and Hsu, C. H.  2007.  “A Study of Internet Shopping  Difficulties  for  Elderly  Customers,”  Journal  of Ergonomic Study (9:2), pp. 45-53. Kurniawan, S.  2008.  “Older People and Mobile Phones,” Inter- national  Journal  of  Human-Computer  Studies  (66:12),  pp. 889-901. Lambert-Pandraud,  R.,  Laurent,  G.,  and  Lapersonne,  E.    2005.  “Repeat Purchasing of New Automobiles by Older Consumers,” Journal of Marketing (69:2), pp. 97-113. Leavitt,  N.    2006.    “Recommendation  Technology,”  Computer (39:5), pp. 13-16. Lian, J.-W., and Yen, D. C.  2014.  “Online Shopping Drivers and Barriers for Older Adults,” Computers in Human Behavior (37), pp. 133-143. Lindberg, T., Näsänen, R., and Müller, K.  2006.  “How Age Affects the Speed of Perception of Computer Icons,” Displays (27:4), pp. 170-177. Loiacono,  E.  T.,  and  Djamasbi,  S.    2013.    “Corporate  Website Accessibility:  Does Legislation Matter?,” Universal Access in the Information Society (12:1), pp. 115-124. Malhotra, N. K.  1982.  “Information Load and Consumer Decision Making,” Journal of Consumer Research (8:4), pp. 419-430. Mata, R., Schooler, L. J., and Rieskamp, J.  2007.  “The Aging Decision Maker,” Psychology and Aging (22:4), pp. 796-810. Miller, G. A.  1956.  “The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two,” Psychological Review (63:2), pp. 81-97. Monica, E, and Perrin, R.  2017.  “Barriers to Adoption and Atti- tudes  towards  Technology,”  Pew  Research  Center  Internet, Science & Technology, May 17  (http://www.pewinternet.org/ 2017/05/17/barriers-to-adoption-and-attitudes-towards- technology/). Morris,  M.  G.,  and  Venkatesh,  V.    2000.    “Age  Differences  in Technology Adoption Decisions,” Personnel Psychology (53:2), pp. 375-403. Moschis,  G.  P.    2012.    “Consumer  Behavior  in  Later  Life,” Psychology & Marketing (29:2), pp. 57-75. Moschis, G. P., and Mathur, A.  2006.  “Older Consumer Responses to Marketing Stimuli,” Journal of Advertising Research (46:3), pp. 339-346. Myers, H., and Lumbers, M.  2008.  “Understanding Older Shop- pers,” Journal of Consumer Marketing (25:5), pp. 294-301. Newell, A., and Simon, H. A.  1972.  The Theory of Human Problem Solving, Englewood Cliffs, NJ:  Prentice-Hall.   O’Keefe, R. M., and McEachern, T.  1998.  “Web-Based Customer Decision Support Systems,” Communications of the ACM (41:3), pp. 71-78. Oviatt, S.  2006.  “Human-Centered Design Meets Cognitive Load Theory,” in Proceedings of the 14th Annual ACM International Conference on Multimedia, New York:  ACM, pp. 871-880.  Page, T.  2014.  “Touchscreen Mobile Devices and Older Adults,” International Journal of Human Factors and Ergonomics (3:1), pp. 65-85. Palanivel, K., and Sivakumar, R.  2010.  “A Study on Implicit Feed- back  in  Multicriteria  E-Commerce  Recommender  System,” Journal of Electronic Commerce Research (11:2), pp. 140-156. Payne, J. W.  1982.  “Contingent Decision Behavior,” Psychological Bulletin (92:2), pp. 382-402. Payne, J. W., Bettman, J. R., and Johnson, E. J.  1993.  The Adaptive Decision Maker, Cambridge, UK:  Cambridge University Press. Pesonen, J., Komppula, R., and Riihinen, A.  2015.  “Senior Travel- lers  as  Users  of  Online  Travel  Services,”  in  Information  and Communication Technologies in Tourism 2015, I. Tussyadiah and A. Inversini (eds.), Cham, Switzerland:  Springer, pp. 831-843. Pew Research Center.  2015.  “Online Shopping and Americans’ Purchasing Preference,” Pew Research Center Internet & Tech- nology (http://www.pewinternet.org/2016/12/19/online-shopping- and-purchasing-preferences/). Punj, G.  2011.  “Effect of Consumer Beliefs on Online Purchase Behavior,” Journal of Interactive Marketing (25:3), pp. 134-144. Punj,  G.    2012.    “Consumer  Decision  Making  on  the  Web,” Psychology & Marketing (29:10), pp. 791-803. Ringle, C. M., Wende, S., and Will, A.  2005.  “SmartPLS (Release 2.0 M3) Http,” University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany. Rogers, E. M., and Shoemaker, F. F.  1971.  Communication of Innovations:  A Cross-Cultural Approach, New York:  The Free Press. Salthouse, T. A.  1982.  Adult Cognition, New York:  Springer- Verlag. Salthouse, T. A.  1996.  “The Processing-Speed Theory of Adult Age Differences in Cognition,” Psychological Review (103:3), pp. 403-428. Schafer, M. H., and Shippee, T. P.  2009.  “Age Identity, Gender, and Perceptions of Decline,” Journals of Gerontology Series B:  Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences (65:1), pp. 91-96. Schwall, A. R., Hedge, J. W., and Borman, W. C.  2012.  “Defining Age and Using Age-Relevant Constructs,” in The Oxford Hand- book of Work and Aging, J. W. Hedge and W. C. Borman (eds.), Oxford, UK:  Oxford University Press, pp. 169-186. Selwyn, N., Gorard, S., Furlong, J., and Madden, L.  2003.  “Older Adults’ Use of Information and Communications Technology in Everyday Life,” Ageing and Society (23:05), pp. 561-582. Sherman,  E.,  Schiffman,  L.  G.,  and  Mathur,  A.    2001.    “The Influence  of  Gender  on  the  New-Age  Elderly’s  Consumption Orientation,” Psychology & Marketing (18:10), pp. 1073-1089. Steele, R., Lo, A., Secombe, C., and Wong, Y. K.  2009.  “Elderly Persons’ Perception and Acceptance of Using Wireless Sensor Networks to Assist Healthcare,” International Journal of Medical Informatics (78:12), pp. 788-801. Steelman, Z. R., Hammer, B. I., and Limayem, M.  2014.  “Data Collection  in  the  Digital  Age,”  MIS  Quarterly  (38:2),  pp. 355-378. Stephan, Y., Caudroit, J., Jaconelli, A., and Terracciano, A.  2014.  “Subjective  Age  and  Cognitive  Functioning,”  The  American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry (22:11), pp. 1180-1187. Stephan,  Y.,  Chalabaev,  A.,  Kotter-Grühn,  D.,  and  Jaconelli,  A.  2012.  “‘Feeling Younger, Being Stronger,’” Journals of Geron- tology Series B:  Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences (68:1), pp. 1-7. Stephan, Y., Sutin, A. R., Caudroit, J., and Terracciano, A.  2015.  “Subjective Age and Changes in Memory in Older Adults,” Jour- nals of Gerontology Series B:  Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences (71:4), pp. 675-683. Stephens, N.  1991.  “Cognitive Age,” Journal of Advertising (20:4), pp. 37-48. MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No.1/March 2019 345 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Sudbury-Riley,  L.,  Kohlbacher,  F.,  and  Hofmeister,  A.    2015.  “Baby Boomers of Different Nations,” International Marketing Review (32:3/4), pp. 245-278. Tams, S., Grover, V., and Thatcher, J.  2014.  “Modern Information Technology  in  an  Old  Workforce,”  The  Journal  of  Strategic Information Systems (23:4), pp. 284-304. Teller, C., Gittenberger, E., and Schnedlitz, P.  2013.  “Cognitive Age and Grocery-Store Patronage by Elderly Shoppers,” Journal of Marketing Management (29:3-4), pp. 317-337. Thompson, R. L., Higgins, C. A., and Howell, J. M.  1991.  “Per- sonal Computing,” MIS Quarterly (15:1), pp. 125-143. Todd, P., and Benbasat, I.  1991.  “An Experimental Investigation of the Impact of Computer Based Decision Aids on Decision Making  Strategies,”  Information  Systems  Research  (2:2),  pp. 87-115. Todd, P., and Benbasat, I.  1992.  “The Use of Information in Deci- sion Making,” MIS Quarterly (16:3), pp. 373-393. Todd, P., and Benbasat, I.  1999.  “Evaluating the Impact of DSS, Cognitive Effort, and Incentives on Strategy Selection,” Infor- mation Systems Research (10:4), pp. 356-374. Todd, P., and Benbasat, I.  2000.  “Inducing Compensatory Infor- mation Processing through Decision Aids That Facilitate Effort Reduction,” Journal of Behavioral Decision Making (13:1), pp. 91-106. Tsekouras, D., and Li, T.  2015.  “The Dual Role of Perceived Effort in Personalized Recommendations,” in Proceedings of the 2015 European Conference on Information Systems, Paper 187. Tucker-Drob, E. M., and Salthouse, T. A.  2008.  “Adult Age Trends in  the  Relations  among  Cognitive  Abilities,” Psychology  and Aging (23:2), pp. 453-460. Underhill, L., and Cadwell, F.  1984.  “‘What Age Do You Feel’ Age Perception Study,” Journal of Consumer Marketing (1:1), pp. 18-27. Wallace,  T.    2017.    “Ecommerce  Trends  in  2017.”  2016.    The BigCommerce  Blog,  June  5  (https://www.bigcommerce.com/ blog/author/tracey-wallace/). Wang, W., and Benbasat, I.  2009.  “Interactive Decision Aids for Consumer Decision Making in E-Commerce,” MIS Quarterly (33:2), pp. 293-320. Wenzke, P.  2014.  “Antecedents and Consequence of Lead User- ness  and  the  Moderating  Effect  of  Self-Perceived  Age,” University of Twente Student Theses.  (http://essay.utwente.nl/ 66113/). Weuve, J., Kang, J. H., Manson, J. E., Breteler, M. M., Ware, J. H., and Grodstein, F.  2004.  “Physical Activity, Including Walking, and Cognitive Function in Older Women,” JAMA (292:12), pp. 1454-1461. Wilkes,  R.  E.    1992.    “A  Structural  Modeling  Approach  to  the Measurement and Meaning of Cognitive Age,” Journal of Con- sumer Research (19:2), pp. 292-301. Wood, R. E.  1986.  “Task Complexity,” Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes (37:1), pp. 60-82. Woodward, N. J., and Wallston, B. S.  1987.  “Age and Health Care Beliefs,” Psychology and Aging (2:1), pp. 3-8. Worden,  A.,  Walker,  N.,  Bharat,  K.,  and  Hudson,  S.    1997.  “Making Computers Easier for Older Adults to Use,” in Pro- ceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, New York:  ACM, pp. 266-271. Xiao, B., and Benbasat, I.  2007.  “E-Commerce Product Recom- mendation Agents,” MIS Quarterly (31:1), pp. 137-209. 346 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1/March 2019 Xu,  F.,  Michael,  K.,  and  Chen,  X.    2014.    “Factors  Affecting Privacy Disclosure on Social Network Sites,” Electronic Com- merce Research (13:2), pp. 151-168. Ying, B., and Yao, R.  2010.  “Self-Perceived Age and Attitudes toward  Marketing  of  Older  Consumers  in  China,”  Journal  of Family and Economic Issues (31:3), pp. 318-327. Zacks,  R.  T.    1989.    “Working  Memory,  Comprehension,  and Aging:  A Review and a New View,” Psychology of Learning & Motivation (22), pp. 193-225. Zeithaml, V. A., and Gilly, M. C.  1987.  “Characteristics Affecting the Acceptance of Retailing Technologies,” Journal of Retailing (63:1), pp. 49-68. Zhang, P.  2013.  “The Affective Response Model,” MIS Quarterly (37:1), pp. 247-274. Zhu, H., Yang, Z., Ou, C. X., Liu, H., and Davison, R. M.  2016.  “Investigating the Impacts of Recommendation Agents on Impul- sive Purchase Behaviour,” paper presented at the Australasian Conference on Information Systems, Adelaide, Australia.  About the Authors Maryam Ghasemaghaei is an assistant professor of Information Systems at the DeGroote School of Business at McMaster Univer- sity. Her research interests relate to technology adoption, and the use of data analytics in organizations.  Her research has been published in academic journals including Journal of Strategic Information Sys- tems, Information & Management, Decision Support Systems, Inter- net Research, Computers in Human Behavior, Journal of Computer Science, and Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services. Khaled Hassanein is a professor of Information Systems, Associate Dean (Graduate Studies & Research), and Director of the McMaster Digital Transformation Research Centre at the DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University.  His interdisciplinary research inter- ests span the areas of digital transformation, data analytics, human– computer interaction, neuro-information systems, decision support systems, and e-Health.  His research is supported through funding from federal, provincial and private sector sources in Canada.  He has published over 115 peer-reviewed articles in leading conferences and journals including Decision Support Systems, Information Sys- tems Research, Information & Management, and Journal of Strate- gic Information Systems.  He received an MASc and a Ph.D. both in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto and the Uni- versity of Waterloo respectively, and an MBA from Wilfrid Laurier University. Izak Benbasat (Ph.D., University of Minnesota, 1974; Doctorat Honoris Causa, Université de Montréal, 2009) is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, former Canada Research Chair in IT Management (2001–2014),  and  Sauder  Distinguished  Professor  of  Information Systems Emeritus at the Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia.  He received the LEO Award for Lifetime Excep- tional Achievements in Information Systems from the Association for Information Systems, and was conferred the title of Distinguished Fellow by the INFORMS Information Systems Society.  He was the editor-in-chief of Information Systems Research, editor of the IS&DSS Department  of  Management  Science,  and  a  senior  editor  of  MIS Quarterly.  He was invited to spend the a year at the Harvard Business School as a Marvin Bower Fellow, was Shaw Visiting Professor at the National University of Singapore, and Otto Monsted Guest Professor at the Copenhagen Business School. RESEARCH NOTE ASSESSING THE DESIGN CHOICES FOR ONLINE RECOMMENDATION AGENTS FOR OLDER ADULTS: OLDER DOES NOT ALWAYS MEAN SIMPLER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Maryam Ghasemaghaei DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, CANADA  {ghasemm@mcmaster.ca} Khaled Hassanein DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, CANADA  {hassank@mcmaster.ca} Izak Benbasat Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, CANADA  {izak.benbasat@ubc.ca} Appendix A Low-Comprehensiveness and High-Comprehensiveness RAs Figure A1.  Screen Shot of the Low-Comprehensiveness RA in the Preferences’ Gathering Stage MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1—Appendices/March 2019 A1 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Figure A2.  Screen Shot of the High-Comprehensiveness RA in the Preferences’ Gathering Stage Figure A3.  Screen Shot of the Low-Comprehensiveness RA in the Recommendations Stage A2 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1–Appendices/March 2019 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Figure A4.  Screen Shot of the High-Comprehensiveness RA in the Recommendations Stage MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1—Appendices/March 2019 A3 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Appendix B Measurement Items of the Dependent Variables Table B1.  Measurement Items of the Dependent Variables Construct Names Perceived Complexity Perceived Usefulness Behavioral Intention to Use an RA Measurement Items (7-point scale) • Using this recommendation agent would take too much time. • Working with this recommendation agent seems so complicated; it would be difficult to understand what is going on. • Using this recommendation agent involves too much time doing mechanical operations (e.g., data input). It would take too long to learn how to use this recommendation agent to make it worth the effort. • • This recommendation agent provides good quality information for • Overall, this recommendation agent is useful for online shopping. • Assuming I had access to this recommendation agent while shopping online, I intend to use it. • Assuming I had access to this recommendation agent while shopping online, I predict that I would use it. • Assuming I had access to this recommendation agent while shopping online, I plan to use it. • This recommendation agent improves my performance in my • This recommendation agent increases my effectiveness for my online shopping task. online shopping task. shopping online. Sources Thompson et al.  (1991) Hassanein and Head (2007) Wang and Benbasat (2009) A4 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1–Appendices/March 2019 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Appendix C Group Comparisons between Cognitive Versus Chronological Age Figure C1 shows the distribution of participants’ cognitive and chronological age.  In this study, the average of participants’ chronological age and cognitive age was 54.8 (SD:  18) and 43.8 (SD:  15.2) years, respectively. 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 70-80 80-90 Cognitive Age Chronological Age 85 38 21 50 41 15 71 33 44 69 10 59 1 9 Figure C1.  Distribution of Participants’ Cognitive and Chronological Age As can be seen in Table C1, there is a positive association between chronological and cognitive age.  Further, and as expected, when individuals become older (> 60 chronological years), they tend to feel younger than their chronological age, with most individuals feeling they are 10 years younger on average than their chronological age. Table C1.  Chronological Age Versus Cognitive Age Chronological Age Group 20-30 30-40 40-50 Cognitive Age 50-60 60-70 70-80 80-90 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 70-80 80-90 Total 36 40 5 4 85 2 6 3 8 2 21 3 7 8 19 3 1 41 1 13 28 28 1 71 19 23 2 44 1 5 4 10 1 1 Total 38 50 15 33 69 59 9 273 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1—Appendices/March 2019 A5 Ghasemaghaei et al./Assessing Design Choices for Online Recommendation Agents Appendix D Loading and Cross Loading of Measures Table D1.  Loading and Cross Loading of Measures Behavioral Intention (BI1) Behavioral Intention (BI2) Behavioral Intention (BI3) Complexity (COM1) Complexity (COM2) Complexity (COM3) Complexity (COM4) Usefulness (PU1) Usefulness (PU2) Usefulness (PU3) Usefulness (PU4) Note:  As cognitive age and RA comprehensiveness are single-item measures that results in loadings of 1.000, they were not included in this analysis. BI 0.9621 0.9785 0.9771 -0.4084 -0.1665 -0.232 -0.2754 0.7629 0.7989 0.8002 0.8081 COM -0.2566 -0.3042 -0.3074 0.7721 0.9332 0.9212 0.9255 -0.2868 -0.2765 -0.2294 -0.2726 PU 0.8165 0.8171 0.8168 -0.3819 -0.1609 -0.2057 -0.2766 0.9188 0.9456 0.9517 0.9586 References Hassanein, K., and Head, M.  2007.  “Manipulating Perceived Social Presence through the Web Interface and its Impact on Attitude towards Online Shopping,” International Journal of Human– Computer Studies (65:8), pp. 689-708. Thompson, R. L., Higgins, C. A., and Howell, J. M.  1991.  “Personal Computing,” MIS Quarterly (15:1), pp. 125-143. Wang, W., and Benbasat, I.  2009.  “Interactive Decision Aids for Consumer Decision Making in E-Commerce,” MIS Quarterly (33:2), pp. 293-320. A6 MIS Quarterly Vol. 43 No. 1–Appendices/March 2019 Copyright of MIS Quarterly is the property of MIS Quarterly and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. 